---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 115003
topic_slug: drinking-through-france-tns-selosse-angerville-rougeard-etc
topic_title: "Drinking through France (TNs: Selosse, Angerville, Rougeard, etc.)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/drinking-through-france-tns-selosse-angerville-rougeard-etc/115003
post_id: 1804232
post_number: 25
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/drinking-through-france-tns-selosse-angerville-rougeard-etc/115003/25
date: "2015-12-01"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 239
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:04+00:00"
---

I’m surprised to find myself in the minority in admiring the 2009s from Raveneau—at least the Clos and MdT that I enjoyed in February. A bit more rounded and approachable than particularly focused vintages such as 2010 or 2012 for sure, but pretty classical, and much more interesting than many of the 2009 Cote de Beaune whites to my mind. It is said that Raveneau use some new oak each year to refresh the barrels in the cellar, and I have heard that each year the new wood is allocated to a different cuvée and thus might make a more pronounced impression, but this is just hearsay. Certainly one-, two- and three-year-old barrels are very far from being neutral in any case. But either way, stylistic comparisons with Rombauer seem just a little hyperbolic to my mind.

Regarding Chablis made exclusively in stainless steel, that’s absolutely correct about Louis Michel. Picq also use 100% stainless steel, though they have no grand crus.

My suspicion is that sommeliers etc in France are sometimes inclined to see the pursuit of Clos Rougeard, Overnoy, etc as being merely the latest manifestation of the herd mentality which had, and has, people chasing “100-point wines”. Frankly, there can be some truth in that. I always feel a bit diffident when heading straight to the Coche on the wine list, but honestly sometimes it would be crazy not to.
