---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 115839
topic_slug: tn-1982-chateau-leoville-barton-france-bordeaux-medoc-st-julien
topic_title: "TN: 1982 Château Léoville Barton (France, Bordeaux, Médoc, St. Julien)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-1982-chateau-leoville-barton-france-bordeaux-medoc-st-julien/115839
post_id: 1822814
post_number: 14
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-1982-chateau-leoville-barton-france-bordeaux-medoc-st-julien/115839/14
date: "2015-12-28"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 281
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:04+00:00"
---

I think “rustic” is a pretty fair characterization of this wine—and indeed, of the 1982 Bordeaux vintage in general, outside the confines of the handful of top wines. The 1982 Leoville Barton’s tannins are certainly melting, but it remains quite a broad-shouldered, blocky, chunky and, well, rustic wine. While some of this is a consequence of wine-making at that period (no new oak, less zealous selection, etc), I think some of that character comes from the vintage (cf. the very elegant and refined 1953, cut from a very different cloth, but made in much the same way).

The evolution of more recent vintages of Léoville Barton is an interesting question. I’d suggest that the 1985 and 1988 (well worth looking for) are the best of the decade, followed by the 1989 and 1990 on pretty level pegging. The 1985 is the most attractive recent vintage that is drinking well.

Looking into the 1990s, I had always taken it as given that this estate continued to be one of the arch-traditionalists in the Médoc, but opening a few bottles this summer gave me pause. Up until and including the (very strong) 1998, the wines seem to be very much in the school of the 1985. But from 1999 onwards the wines’ new oak component seemed much more pronounced to me, both in terms of aromatics and tannins (though that can be a hard call to make). That made me wonder if the barrel programme had changed and is marking the wines more than it used to. I’d be curious to hear if anyone has anything to contribute on this subject, admittedly tangential to the thread.
