---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 117283
topic_slug: best-californian-wine-from-today-in-2100
topic_title: "Best Californian wine from today in 2100"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/best-californian-wine-from-today-in-2100/117283
post_id: 1853208
post_number: 29
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/best-californian-wine-from-today-in-2100/117283/29
date: "2016-02-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Hi Folks, Really a fun idea to throw around. There are lots of Burgundies and Bordeaux that make it that long- for instance, good grand crus from 1937 are still brilliant- Drouhin Bonnes-Mares a fairly recent case in point- and 1928 Bordeaux still have decades and decades of life ahead of them. So,…"
word_count: 305
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:04+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Hi Folks, Really a fun idea to throw around. There are lots of Burgundies and Bordeaux that make it that long- for instance, good grand crus from 1937 are still brilliant- Drouhin Bonnes-Mares a fairly recent case in point- and 1928 Bordeaux still have decades and decades of life ahead of them. So,…

Hi John,

I am on board with most of what you say, but your remarks about Dominus raise some interesting points. While Dominus is certainly weighing in a bit riper than it used to (1991 is labelled 13.5, 1994 is a bit higher than that, both still going very strong, though maybe not actually as complex as e.g. ‘92), the grapes are much better protected from sunburn and raisining, and sorting for these thing is more rigorous. So the more recent Dominus vintages do not have the aromatic dimension of torrefaction one finds in the sunny vintages of the early days (pretty much the last millenium). What is more, in terms of phenolics, I would imagine that the tannins of more recent vintages might actually have more vitality (i.e. less field oxidation) than the earlier, more roasted wines. This is just a speculation, but it’s an interesting question. Of course, the reason I cited Togni but not Dominus in my post above was because I would imagine Dominus’ life expectancy to be more in the region of 50 years, so we are not in disagreement on that front.

My sense, for what it’s worth, is that the Heitz wines these days are really picked pretty ripe, but that is just based on a few tastings. They also go through malo now, whereas there are rumours that they didn’t routinely do so back in the day.

Regarding Ridge, in some ways Monte Bello may be the best candidate of all for serious longevity, as the pHs there are really very low indeed for red wines in California, or even in contemporary France—we are talking about 3.2-3.4 as a typical range as I recall! In fact, that would be considered low for quite a few Californian Chardonnays…
