---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 121288
topic_slug: germany-2015-really-that-great
topic_title: "Germany 2015 really that great"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/germany-2015-really-that-great/121288
post_id: 1952837
post_number: 121
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/germany-2015-really-that-great/121288/121
date: "2016-06-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 224
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:03+00:00"
---

I attended the Howard Ripley tasting in London yesterday, and was very impressed. It was nice to chat with a few of the growers, who are tangibly excited by the quality of what they have produced, albeit a bit more reserved in expressing it than anyone who spends time around the Bordelais would be used to.

Among a lot of brilliant wines, Zilliken’s really stood out for their energy and purity / clarity, even at the highest prädikat levels.

I took note of Julian Haart, whose wines I don’t know that well. His Schubertslay Kabinett was magical, and is a must-purchase for me.

The Prüm cask samples were pretty reduced aromatically, but seem very solid, with GH and WS nicely texturally differentiated and the aromatics unfolding if you took the time. The 04 WS Auslese that Katharina was pouring too was showing very nicely as well, incidentally. She cautioned against getting 2015 tunnel vision, which was very sanguine given how well the samples showed.

Strong showing from Willi Schaefer too, as usual one of my favorite addresses. Hard to chose between the Himmelreich and the Domprobst, so will probably have to buy both.

Only three Dönnhoff wines were shown but all seemed pretty brilliant to me. So I don’t really relate to the skepticism that several folks have voiced about them.
