---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 124227
topic_slug: tn-2009-clos-salomon-givry-1er-cru-clos-salomon
topic_title: "TN: 2009 Clos Salomon Givry 1er Cru Clos Salomon"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2009-clos-salomon-givry-1er-cru-clos-salomon/124227
post_id: 2550914
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2009-clos-salomon-givry-1er-cru-clos-salomon/124227/13
date: "2019-01-03"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "For most of the Côte de chalonnaise what are other good producers? I’ve come up with Bruno Clair (marsannay), Mongeard mugneret (fixin), AP Villaine (rully, mercurey), bachelet (maranges)"
word_count: 197
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:56+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> For most of the Côte de chalonnaise what are other good producers? I’ve come up with Bruno Clair (marsannay), Mongeard mugneret (fixin), AP Villaine (rully, mercurey), bachelet (maranges)

Marsannay and Fixin are Côte de Nuits! But in Marsannay I would strongly recommend Charles Audoin and in Fixin, Berthaut-Gerbet and Gelin.

With Maranges, you are still technically in the Côte de Beaune, but Bachelet-Monnot would be my pick. Going to spend more time there and in Santenay in the Spring.

For Bouzeron, try a new domaine, Les Champs de Thémis, making superb Aligoté. Would rank them along with Ramonet above the de Villaine example, and they should be less expensive. They just got US representation.

For Rully, the reference point is Dureuil-Janthial, who also happen to make one of the best Puligny AOC bottlings. Gresigny and the old vine Meix Cadot bottlings are my favorite whites. Jacquesson is excellent but perhaps a little conservative - very, very good for the Côte Chalonnaise but not pushing the envelope beyond that.

Mercurey is quite exciting, with Charton, Bruno Lorenzon (expensive, but great), François Raquillet and a newly dynamic Château de Chamirey and Michel Juillot, along with very creditable bottlings from Faiveley. Lorenzon is the only one making truly great whites there, as the terroirs are seemingly better suited to red.

Givry, we have already looked at.
