---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 127002
topic_slug: premox-is-there-really-a-motivation-to-change
topic_title: "Premox. Is there really a motivation to change?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/premox-is-there-really-a-motivation-to-change/127002
post_id: 2068764
post_number: 95
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/premox-is-there-really-a-motivation-to-change/127002/95
date: "2016-12-01"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I found a good article in PUNCH written by Jon Bonne about “browning” whites before fermentation. http://punchdrink.com/articles/a-new-era-for-white-wine-burgundy/?cdi=2D1826EBA3A96115E0534FD66B0A4057%7d&ref=PRHAAC21A01F285&aid=randohouseinc22821-20&linkid=PRHAAC21A01F285"
word_count: 274
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I found a good article in PUNCH written by Jon Bonne about “browning” whites before fermentation. http://punchdrink.com/articles/a-new-era-for-white-wine-burgundy/?cdi=2D1826EBA3A96115E0534FD66B0A4057%7d&ref=PRHAAC21A01F285&aid=randohouseinc22821-20&linkid=PRHAAC21A01F285

That is a good article, which makes some important points. There are a few questionable contentions: e.g. what Bonné calls ‘the Roulot technique’ of finishing elevage sur lie in tank had been practiced by the Domaine Leflaive for years before. But I think the bigger problem is that he is offering a mono-causal explanation for a multifactorial problem. Most of the things you can do wrong in white wine making end up with the wine oxidized, so there are a lot of different routes to get there. Closures are one factor, and in some cases probably a sufficient explanation of premox, but white Burgundy has aged just fine with questionable-quality corks in the past, and I would rather have a case of 1979 Lafon 1er crus with scrappy corks than a case of 2014 Lafon 1er crus under DIAM. Jon is not the first to make a persuasive case for the importance of juice browning (just one facet of a number of issues which follow from white winemaking with modern presses). Sulphur levels are another. So, surely, is the duration of sur lie aging. And so are bottling practices and the processing of the wine. And so are must acidities. The list goes on, which is why threads on premox tend to go round in circles. When I purchase white Burgundy to age I seek out producers making wines using old-fashioned, artisanal techniques and bottling with the best natural corks obtainable; because I am looking for wines which age like their predecessors from the '70s and '80s made in that way. But everybody has their own strategy and desired outcome.
