---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 127207
topic_slug: quick-visit-to-burgundy-to-taste-some-2015s
topic_title: "quick visit to Burgundy to taste some 2015's"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/quick-visit-to-burgundy-to-taste-some-2015s/127207
post_id: 2064326
post_number: 11
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/quick-visit-to-burgundy-to-taste-some-2015s/127207/11
date: "2016-11-26"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Herwig - a friend who has been visiting Burgundy for at least 30 years tasted at Pernot and was told that their wines are a notch up from 2014. And my friend also spoke to Coche and he agreed that 2015 was a better vintage. I have tasted a bottle of the 2015 Pernot clos de la Folatieres that was…"
word_count: 256
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:03+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Herwig - a friend who has been visiting Burgundy for at least 30 years tasted at Pernot and was told that their wines are a notch up from 2014. And my friend also spoke to Coche and he agreed that 2015 was a better vintage. I have tasted a bottle of the 2015 Pernot clos de la Folatieres that was…

The Bâtard from PYCM is pretty extraordinary, but what’s remarkable is how the vintage seems to have elevated the lesser appellations in his portfolio. That’s especially evident with his village Saint Aubins.

Interestingly, and I speculate that’s it’s a function of soil water-holding capacity, I found Bâtard to be not sometimes the equal or even superior of Chevalier in cellars where both were to be sampled. Leflaive’s Chevalier probably had the edge (though rampant premox makes it an academic question), as did Chartron’s, whereas I preferred the Bâtard at PYCM and they were tied chez Jadot.

The Pierre Morey wines are very strong and well worth seeking out, with the Perrières being one of the most exciting whites of the trip (the Bâtard had just been racked and was not presented for tasting). I drank quite a few older bottles from Morey and Morey Blanc during my two months in Burgundy this year and was reminded of just how good those wines are in the fullness of time.

Heading back in January to taste at Ente, B. Moreau and a few other nice addresses which I fully expect to have done very well, but we shall see.

On the subject of 2014 whites, stop at nothing to obtain Roulot’s Perrières. It is just stunning! JM thinks his best vintage along with '07 and '96 and who am I to dissent.

Regarding red 2015s, I’m not sure I see analogies with '99s. Yields in 2015 were considerably lower.
