---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 127207
topic_slug: quick-visit-to-burgundy-to-taste-some-2015s
topic_title: "quick visit to Burgundy to taste some 2015's"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/quick-visit-to-burgundy-to-taste-some-2015s/127207
post_id: 2064232
post_number: 7
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/quick-visit-to-burgundy-to-taste-some-2015s/127207/7
date: "2016-11-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 378
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

After tasting at around seventy domaines, my sense is that this is an excellent red vintage. Much more freshness and terroir definition than many expected. Vignerons are making a variety of analogies: those invoked most frequently were 2005 (but with more mid-palate depth and more refined tannins); 1959 and 1990 (but with more freshness). Michel Lafarge insist no vintage in the last sixty years resembles 2015 and that 1929, which he tasted as a young man not long after is *mise* , is the best comparison. Of course one should always be selective when buying Burgundy, but I cannot think of a domaine I was expecting to perform well that disappointed. Among the failures of the vintage in red, I found excessive extraction, excessive use of press wine and protracted post-fermentation maceration to be at least as big a problem as over-ripeness, with some wines quite astringent, aggressive or tasting of marc. 2015 is a seriously structured year, so one had to be careful, especially in rustic appellations (e.g. Chassagne rouge, Chorey) which the warm vintage ought to have elevated.

The white side of the ledger is more complicated and opinions are mixed on the ground. Vignerons are considerably less positive about the vintage in general, with some exceptions: Pierre-Yves Collin thinks 2015 may be his best vintage yet, drawing comparisons with 1985; Anne Morey is very up-beat and has made absolutely lovely wines; Olivier Lamy can also feel very content, to say the least. I might venture that the vintage is perhaps a bit more like 2005 than 2006 or 2003, though I’m loath to contradict Herwig. 2005 was a vintage which produced some really great white Burgundies (e.g. Coche-Dury, Pierre Morey, Leflaive) but also a lot of pretty flabby, boring wines which are not very interesting today. In general I found the fruit tones of the 2015 whites more in the register of preserved / baked citrus than overtly tropical, but there were some exceptions of course (e.g. François Carillon). So in short, the whites are much harder to generalize about but there are, as always, some really lovely wines to be found too, even if they do not hit quite the heights of the sometimes extraordinary reds.
