---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 127591
topic_slug: more-that-a-poll-explain-why-you-buy-your-top-five-producers
topic_title: "More that a Poll- Explain Why You Buy Your Top Five Producers?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/more-that-a-poll-explain-why-you-buy-your-top-five-producers/127591
post_id: 2074723
post_number: 64
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/more-that-a-poll-explain-why-you-buy-your-top-five-producers/127591/64
date: "2016-12-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 338
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

It’s a pretty close-run thing between the top twenty or so producers I buy as to which make it to the top-five spots, but very happy to see these at the top of the list.

1. Mugneret-Gibourg. Our favorite address in the Côte de Nuits. The wines have always been great but arguably even better this millennium. They retain such purity and vitality as they age. And the sisters are some of the loveliest people we have met in the wine world. Their Clos Vougeot would probably be my desert island wine, or their Nuits Chaignots. I buy all I’m allocated and won’t touch the village until it is 12-15 years old, so it is stacking up.
1. Prüm. One of the reference-points and very easy to acquire in volume for stupidly little money. Also wines that I do not touch until they have a good decade of bottle age, which they really reward. For whatever reason I have more of their wines than Willi Schaefer’s, which would probably be my favorite Mosel producer if I had to choose.
1. Vatan. Didn’t realize this had climbed up the list so far. Have this back to 2007 but do not consider any of it ready to drink, so it is stacking up. Getting quite costly but such a singular wine and so age-worthy (which is a real priority for me). A friend recently drank magnums of '98 and '97 and I practically cried with envy.
1. Bernard Moreau. For me one of a handful of producers at the very top of the white Burgundy tree, and I have as much confidence in their ability to age as anyone can have in the age of premox. The wines are incredibly singular and consistently thrilling.
1. Tertre Rotebeouf. Again, a singular wine (the only analogy in Bordeaux might be Le Pin?) made by an amazingly interesting winemaker. Comparatively difficult to find after release, so has made sense to stock up.
