---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 127670
topic_slug: best-wine-scorers
topic_title: "Best wine scorers"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/best-wine-scorers/127670
post_id: 2074875
post_number: 27
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/best-wine-scorers/127670/27
date: "2016-12-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Thomas Keim: I’ve always felt that the best wine critics are the ones with the most neutral palates. One’s that don’t lean towards weight over finesse, one’s that are truly knowledgeable about every major and minor grape and the way they are made in each country. You shouldn’t have to ‘align’…"
word_count: 164
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Thomas Keim: I’ve always felt that the best wine critics are the ones with the most neutral palates. One’s that don’t lean towards weight over finesse, one’s that are truly knowledgeable about every major and minor grape and the way they are made in each country. You shouldn’t have to ‘align’…

It seems to me that the fallacy of ‘objectively’ scoring wine (which I sense is at the root of this discussion) arises out of the conflation of two types of tasting.

One is technical tasting, which assesses wines against a variety of criteria to determine success or failure; and it gives binary results: the wine is flawed or not, balanced or not, its tannins are ripe or not, etc. This is the sort of tasting that enologists, winemakers, appellation officials, etc do professionally.

Technical tasting gets mixed up with what we might call appreciative tasting, which results in much more fun and enthusing tasting notes, but is unavoidably concerned with personal preference. You can attempt to quantify preference, sure, but you are not going to be producing a number that is in any sense objective.

In practice, critics’ scores are often an amalgam of how much they themselves like the wine, and how much they think their readers are likely to like the wine.
