---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 127771
topic_slug: five-1982-bordeauxs
topic_title: "Five 1982 Bordeauxs"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/five-1982-bordeauxs/127771
post_id: 2076924
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/five-1982-bordeauxs/127771/13
date: "2016-12-12"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 308
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

Interesting question. I do think that there’s some truth in what you say. This vintage, which once looked brilliant across the board, is beginning to look more differentiated. Clearly the real stars of the vintage—Lafleur, La Mission, Latour, Mouton, La Tour Haut Brion and a few others—are profound wines, built for the ages and still youthful today. But my sense is that lower down the hierarchy a lot of the wines are fully mature, with the best days of a lot of the lesser right bank wines already behind them and the more short-term propositions from Margaux and the southern Médoc being next in the queue for the tumbril. There is also a certain rather burly, rustic character to quite a few of the wines which for me lends the 1982s as a set the sort of ‘sameness’ you’re commenting on, though of course you might have been identifying different commonalities.

The fact that 1989 is an excellent vintage, and also that the very elegant 1985s are, I’d argue, aging better than expected (whereas the 1982s are aging perhaps worse than expected) begs the question as to which is truly the best vintage of the decade *when considered as a whole* . The heights achieved by '82s “greatest hits” probably still give it the edge in any overall ranking (especially that 1982 Lafleur), but it is a moderately interesting conversation to have, given that the quality of '82 has been something of a shibboleth for several decades now. To me it seems clear that '82, while excellent, is not on the level of the great post-war vintages, especially 1961, but at this stage judgements like this will be heavily weighted by the good fortune or bad luck one has had when opening bottles, and I have been very lucky indeed with 1961.
