---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 129949
topic_slug: birth-year-wine-recommendation-1985
topic_title: "Birth Year Wine Recommendation - 1985"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/birth-year-wine-recommendation-1985/129949
post_id: 2121935
post_number: 10
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/birth-year-wine-recommendation-1985/129949/10
date: "2017-02-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 231
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

You have a lot of options. It’s a lovely Bordeaux vintage: I can only second the suggestions of Lynch Bages and LLC, which I’ve had in the last few months with immense pleasure. Mouton-Rothschild is fantastic and you might just be able to find a bottle for <$400. Pichon Lalande is lovely from well-stored bottles, one of the last old-school renditions of PLL. Montrose is very fine and somewhat under-the-radar, ditto Sociando-Mallet. Magdaleine on the right bank would be a great choice too, a stunning wine at the peak of its powers.

It’s a great Burgundy vintage too, for both red and white. Many of the whites are still cruising along in great condition. The 1985 Bonneau du Martray Corton-Charlemagne would be a terrific choice. So would Robert Ampeau’s whites which, since they’re late-released, are still kicking around in the marketplace. Reds from any of the usual suspects would be more than worthy of consideration, and don’t disdain Jadot’s '85s. The Corton-Pougets for example is wonderful.

Lots of solid options in the Northern Rhone too, probably the easiest to source being Jaboulet’s Hermitage La Chapelle.

In Champagne I’d look closely at Charles Heidsieck’s Blanc de Millenaires which is less likely to have traveled the world’s auction markets than DP or Krug.
