---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 132031
topic_slug: its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin
topic_title: "It's critic bingo! (energetic, vertical, explosive beams of tannin)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin/132031
post_id: 3036075
post_number: 1291
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin/132031/1291
date: "2020-11-28"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Clearly this industry needs a style manual. Since nobody else wants to do it, I will have to issue the ruling myself. Lifted: Avoid. If you mean VA, say VA. [Same rule applies to the other perfectly good English word, I forget what it was, that wine critics decided to use as a technical connotation…"
word_count: 247
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:21+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Clearly this industry needs a style manual. Since nobody else wants to do it, I will have to issue the ruling myself. Lifted: Avoid. If you mean VA, say VA. [Same rule applies to the other perfectly good English word, I forget what it was, that wine critics decided to use as a technical connotation…

I’m not sure I agree, Keith. To me, the terms “lifted” and “high-toned” (and especially the latter) are quite readily relatable to a wine with a tangier, livelier, more piquant register of aromas. The fact that these terms have been used in a sort of imprecise, free-association word soup by some wine writers—and surely by some amateurs, too—doesn’t necessarily mean we should expunge them from our vocabularies. Perhaps we can agree, at least, that we should prioritize expunging “metallic minerality” first, and deal with “lifted / high-toned” later?

And I agree with Jim that once one starts mentioning properties known by informed amateurs be “flaws”, it’s hard to reconcile that with a positive tasting note. It also lends pseudo-scientific precision to a tasting note (just like citing pH, TA, IPT, or even, frankly, varietal composition without commentary). Am I to write that “I’d guess that this wine has around 0.65 grams VA [as g/L H2SO4, which is the way it’s quantified in France, whereas it’s measured as g/L CH3COOH elsewhere], which is on the high side of what’s conventional in Burgundy, but which is perfectly integrated in this particular example, bringing liveliness to the flavors and aromas”? I think the audience for writing of that sort would be rather limited. If I mention “volatile acidity” by name, therefore, it’s because it stands out as borderline disjointed or worse, and caveat emptor.
