---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 132031
topic_slug: its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin
topic_title: "It's critic bingo! (energetic, vertical, explosive beams of tannin)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin/132031
post_id: 3052694
post_number: 1359
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin/132031/1359
date: "2020-12-22"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I didn’t think dry extract included acid. I can see why acid would be searing. I think Marcus is (1) asking why dry extract would ever be “searing” and (2) questioning why “searing” appears in positive wine reviews, when “searing” is not a pleasant experience. What I am trying to communicate is the…"
word_count: 223
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:21+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I didn’t think dry extract included acid. I can see why acid would be searing. I think Marcus is (1) asking why dry extract would ever be “searing” and (2) questioning why “searing” appears in positive wine reviews, when “searing” is not a pleasant experience. What I am trying to communicate is the…

I do use “penetrating”, but with reference to a long, acid-driven finish. But for me, the impact of a white wine with very high levels of dry extract is more comparable to the impression made by a tannic red wine.

“Grip” is fine, but a little vague, and doesn’t really foreground the winemaking process (extraction) that is responsible for the characteristic. The subtext here is that I would like to see more white Burgundies made with an old-fashioned approach to pressing, as I really appreciate old-school white Burgundy.

As for it being common, well, a certain amount of “grip” isn’t unusual (this is sometimes barrel tannin, free sulfur or other things, so not necessarily what I’m talking about here), but anything that might be described as “searing” isn’t in the white Burgundies that I taste. I use the phrase very seldom, and it really isn’t intended to be all that figurative: I think I’ve applied it to the white wines of Domaine d’Auvenay, some top cuvées from Guffens-Heynen, some wines from Coche-Dury, and a handful of others. “Mouthpuckering”, as has also been suggested, works well enough but also seems to me to be substituting one term that may be misconstrued as pejorative for another, and thus not much of an improvement.
