---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 132031
topic_slug: its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin
topic_title: "It's critic bingo! (energetic, vertical, explosive beams of tannin)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin/132031
post_id: 2340877
post_number: 325
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/its-critic-bingo-energetic-vertical-explosive-beams-of-tannin/132031/325
date: "2018-01-21"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William Kelley: Edward H. Earles: Another descriptor I see often (especially in Wine Spectator) is hot stone . I wonder how many of these reviewers have actually placed hot stones in their mouths. It’s possible they spend a lot of time in the sauna… But I shouldn’t throw (hot) stones from glass…"
word_count: 161
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:21+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William Kelley: Edward H. Earles: Another descriptor I see often (especially in Wine Spectator) is hot stone . I wonder how many of these reviewers have actually placed hot stones in their mouths. It’s possible they spend a lot of time in the sauna… But I shouldn’t throw (hot) stones from glass…

Or foolhardy.

But it’s actually very interesting and has made me look at my own notes more critically.

I suppose a question I’ve been pondering is how enervating people find syntactical or structural repetition—as distinct from either the repetition or the meaningfulness of vocabulary. Tasting a bunch of young wines is inherently repetitive, even though (hopefully) the wines are not, and it is natural to describe nose and palate in succession, before appraising the wine in general and setting it in some sort of context. If you’re tasting diligently, there is also often quite a lot of information to record. I find myself increasingly breaking my notes into three sentences—(1) nose, (2) palate, (3) appraisal / context—but while this avoids the problem of metastasizing subordinate clauses, it sometimes feels a bit ponderous (i.e. the second sentence often begins, ‘On the palate…’). So I would be interested to hear people comment about syntax and sentence structure.
