---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 132293
topic_slug: post-premox-a-quiet-revolution-in-the-cote-de-beaune
topic_title: "Post-Premox: A Quiet Revolution in the Côte de Beaune"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/post-premox-a-quiet-revolution-in-the-cote-de-beaune/132293
post_id: 2174693
post_number: 124
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/post-premox-a-quiet-revolution-in-the-cote-de-beaune/132293/124
date: "2017-05-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William Kelley: Don Cornwell: Leflaive still put the wines into steel after 10-12 months, incidentally: I tasted the '15s from tank in October. My intuition (I speculate) is that the problems there stem from low sulfur and perhaps a laissez faire attitude to topping, inspired by some of the more…"
word_count: 220
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:02+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William Kelley: Don Cornwell: Leflaive still put the wines into steel after 10-12 months, incidentally: I tasted the '15s from tank in October. My intuition (I speculate) is that the problems there stem from low sulfur and perhaps a laissez faire attitude to topping, inspired by some of the more…

Don:

That analysis sounds very convincing to me.

The Leflaive wines present a real conundrum to review, since they taste impeccably classic from tank (living up, I would say, to their reputation) but come with such a high probability of crashing-and-burning in the cellar. The raw materials are great but how does one assess a compromised product?

To pursue your digression on the subject of pH, the paradox seems to me to be that high acid vintages (e.g. 1996, 2008) don’t seem to be appreciably less susceptible to premox than lower-acid vintages (e.g. 2006, 2005). I have sometimes wondered whether malolactic stability is one further piece of the premox puzzle: in vintages with high levels of malic acid and sluggish malolactic fermentations, did wines go to bottle when they were still a little unstable—even if, analytically, all the malic acid was gone? If they did then malolactic bacterial activity would presumably burn through the wines’ SO2 pretty rapidly, leaving you, effectively, with vin nature. Alternatively, the techniques necessary to force through malolactic fermentation in time for bottling when wines are high in malic acid and low in pH, e.g. warming cellars, stirring, may also be culprits.

Again, since most roads lead to oxidation, 2005s and 2008s may be premoxed for different reasons.
