---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 134039
topic_slug: 2010-pycm-st-aubin-en-remilly
topic_title: "2010 PYCM St Aubin en Remilly"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2010-pycm-st-aubin-en-remilly/134039
post_id: 2209895
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2010-pycm-st-aubin-en-remilly/134039/19
date: "2017-06-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William Kelly Thanks for the notes. I also thought the Genevrieres was a notch above the Perrieres so we are thinking along the same lines there as well. Now all we have to do is find the funds and connections to be able to get these wines."
word_count: 197
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:01+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William Kelly Thanks for the notes. I also thought the Genevrieres was a notch above the Perrieres so we are thinking along the same lines there as well. Now all we have to do is find the funds and connections to be able to get these wines.

Thanks Jerry. I’m glad you agree. When reviewing wines like these there is a great deal of what one might call cultural pressure to follow the received hierarchy, i.e. Chevalier ranks above Bâtard, Perrières above Genevrières. To my mind, too many writers succumb to it, giving scores which could be produced by algorithm. In reality, sites don’t always perform the same way every vintage; vine material in parcels is often of varying quality; and in a case like this, where we are talking about purchased grapes, farming quality can vary too.

As for finding the wines, that is not so hard to do in Burgundy. Happy to share some sources if you PM me, though if you are tasting with PY you likely already have plenty of options of your own.

If the grand crus are hard to come by, I would personally focus on the Saint Aubin 1er crus and the Chassagne Caillerets from domaine fruit, which I think match or surpass several of the more ardently pursued négoce wines.

Also: don’t miss the Bernard Moreau '15s. If you liked PY’s it’s hard to imagine you won’t love those.
