---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 134931
topic_slug: let-s-talk-volnay
topic_title: "Let´s talk VOLNAY"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/let-s-talk-volnay/134931
post_id: 2229729
post_number: 12
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/let-s-talk-volnay/134931/12
date: "2017-07-31"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 295
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:01+00:00"
---

Lafarge is at the top of the tree for me. Last night a humble 1993 Vendanges Sélectionées showed beautifully, so pure and vibrant.

The d’Angerville wines are good but a bit marked by high percentages of Taransaud, which makes quite an aromatic (clove, orange rind, vanilla) and textural (tannin) impact.

The Pousse d’Or wines are getting better but the wheel has been reinvented there and they don’t really have anything to do with the Potel-era bottlings. A pity because of Clos des 60 Ouvrées has to be one of the best terroirs in the Côte de Beaune.

In terms of rising stars, Thierry Glantenay has been quietly improving for a while and everything came together magically in 2015, wines not to miss - and lovely appellations too: Caillerets, Clos de Chenes, Santenots (plus a fine Pommard Rugiens). The Champans from Monthélie-Douhairet-Porcheret is getting quite serious in Cataldina’s hands too. The same should be said of the Buisson-Charles Santenots.

It would be remiss not to observe that Nicolas Rossignol is making some terrific Volnays, his 2015s being especially strong. From an old Volnay family but his new cellars are off the Beaune ring road.

And I’d second the nomination of Voillot - lovely wines in quite a generous, sensual style, clearly differentiated by site.

As far as vineyards go, the generalizations about Volnay being ‘feminine’ and elegant do have a lot of truth to them (no major air draining in the commune to thicken skins, soils often quite shallow and calcerous), vineyards like Champans, Taillepieds and Santenots can produce very ample, structural wines with quite wild characteristics and a serious chassis of tannin, so (as always in Burgundy) it gets a bit more complicated the more narrowly one focusses.
