---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 136558
topic_slug: tn-2013-dunn-vineyard-howell-mountain-cabernet
topic_title: "TN:  2013 Dunn Vineyard Howell Mountain Cabernet"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2013-dunn-vineyard-howell-mountain-cabernet/136558
post_id: 2394176
post_number: 21
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2013-dunn-vineyard-howell-mountain-cabernet/136558/21
date: "2018-04-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Does 2014 mark a stylistic change for Dunn, or is it perhaps just a hallmark of the vintage? There was an article a few years back on changes Mike Dunn wished to implement, presumably to make the wines more approachable in their youth, and I assume those changes have been implemented over time. The…"
word_count: 236
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:59+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Does 2014 mark a stylistic change for Dunn, or is it perhaps just a hallmark of the vintage? There was an article a few years back on changes Mike Dunn wished to implement, presumably to make the wines more approachable in their youth, and I assume those changes have been implemented over time. The…

In a sense, but the article you’re referring to (and several other commentators) largely got it wrong. In brief: over the years, Randy, who still called all the picks up until last year, had been picking a bit later, and then opting to remove alcohol if the wine exceeded 14%. Mike Dunn wants to pick at the sort of maturity that Randy picked at back in the 1990s, when he produced wines with natural alcohol in the mid to high 13s. Simultaneously, Mike has made some changes to the élevage regime: Randy used to use 50% new oak from Vicard, with wide grain, for as much oak impact for as little expenditure as possible. In pursuit of less aggressive wood tannin and in an attempt (which since 2003 or so has succeeded) to eliminate the brettanomyces which invaded the cellar in the late 1990s, Mike has gone over to using 100% new oak but selects barrels that are very low impact. He runs numerous barrel trials and really works on tailoring the cooperage to the wine.

Nothing about the wines’ concentration, fruit tannin or aging potential has changed. They just carry less coarse oak tannin, less brett and—in the future—we can expect them to carry a touch less natural alcohol.

Unfortunately, several commentators have misinterpreted this as Mike trying to make ‘softer’ more commercial wines, which couldn’t be further from the truth.
