---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 137497
topic_slug: 2015-arnoux
topic_title: "2015 Arnoux"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2015-arnoux/137497
post_id: 2290612
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2015-arnoux/137497/13
date: "2017-11-03"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Are you saying, despite all the praise 2015 is getting at the moment, that you prefer the 2016? I wonder if the whole cluster thing is what’s wrong with my 2012’s, since the complete de-stemming of their older vintages was probably what made them appeal to me."
word_count: 182
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:00+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Are you saying, despite all the praise 2015 is getting at the moment, that you prefer the 2016? I wonder if the whole cluster thing is what’s wrong with my 2012’s, since the complete de-stemming of their older vintages was probably what made them appeal to me.

If the discussion is limited to the Arnoux-Lachaux Bourgogne “Pinot Fin”, yes, I prefer the '16 to the '15, for the reasons given.

Charles is really performing a complete *volte face* here, with much gentler extraction and much less new oak in the cellar, and much more attentive, less chemical viticulture. The idea is to get naturally very concentrated grapes and then extract gently, rather than getting overcropped grapes with poor chemistry and compensating with extraction, oak and acid-adds in the cuverie. One of his big influences is Leroy, and he is now training the domaine’s vines like Lalou’s team does (an expensive and laborious undertaking). You can’t transform vineyards overnight, nor do you master the technical dimensions of whole cluster fermentation in one or two vintages, so naturally there will be a learning curve, but the rationale and the integrity of what Charles is trying to do are unimpeachable, and the qualitative progression already evident. He also happens to have some nice old vines with good genetics which should make things move forward a bit faster.
