---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 139062
topic_slug: a-2017-observation-about-1980s-vintage-bordeaux
topic_title: "A 2017 Observation About 1980s Vintage Bordeaux"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/a-2017-observation-about-1980s-vintage-bordeaux/139062
post_id: 2324389
post_number: 40
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/a-2017-observation-about-1980s-vintage-bordeaux/139062/40
date: "2017-12-27"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Great post, Pat. Do you have a link to that BWE thread? Some smart peeps over there. I came into Bordeaux in 1992, so was trying young Bordeaux from 1986, 88, 89 and shortly thereafter, 1990. While some were lean and hard, some closed, some monolithic - and many did actually have open windows - I…"
word_count: 206
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:00+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Great post, Pat. Do you have a link to that BWE thread? Some smart peeps over there. I came into Bordeaux in 1992, so was trying young Bordeaux from 1986, 88, 89 and shortly thereafter, 1990. While some were lean and hard, some closed, some monolithic - and many did actually have open windows - I…

Brett certainly often is part of the equation in these wines, but I think a more oxidative style of winemaking and elevage is also an important factor in producing the aromas you identify. Speaking generally, the trend over the last few decades has been for less racking and briefer barrel maturation. (And that’s to some extent an adaptation to riper fruit).

To me, the '70s and '80s in Bordeaux sometimes seem like a story of adapting to the increased yields permitted by modern viticulture (fertilizers, clones, mechanization etc). Beginning in the late 1960s, yields in Bordeaux soared. Larger crops are harder to ripen: in the '70s, they often didn’t; in the '80s, they mostly didn’t.

I certainly love '80s Bordeaux, but excepting a handful of '82s, '86s and '89s, it’s hard to think of anything from the decade that matches the sheer intensity and concentration (without heaviness) of the great post-war and interwar vintages, when yields were much lower and before the introduction of clonal selections. Of course, these days those wines are pretty old, and without perfect provenance very variable, but the highs remain extraordinary. And interestingly, as an aside, in my experience those wines very seldom show any brett.
