---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 139570
topic_slug: tn-1302-points-worth-of-2015-bourgogne-ac
topic_title: "TN: 1302 points worth of 2015 Bourgogne AC"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-1302-points-worth-of-2015-bourgogne-ac/139570
post_id: 2335937
post_number: 17
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-1302-points-worth-of-2015-bourgogne-ac/139570/17
date: "2018-01-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 262
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:32:00+00:00"
---

So, as I recall the story goes like this. The Guillemots did trials with machine harvesting in 1999. Kermit was all set to drop them, but they invited him to test the results. He preferred the machine harvested wine (and so did I when I tried them almost two decades later). In some vintages, such as 2016, they have returned to hand harvesting across the board, as they had too few grapes; and they pick by hand any fruit they wish to ferment whole cluster, obviously.

While I am intuitively opposed to machine harvesting, Vincent made a persuasive case that, by working with the latest technology and calibrating the equipment afresh before harvesting each parcel, they can get a very good result which surpasses poor quality hand harvesting. Inspecting the vines after the harvest, fruit that was unripe or rotten did indeed seem to have been left on the vine. And he argued that in fact, by being able to harvest exactly when they want to, machine harvesting represents the opposite of a compromise for them.

Now, in an ideal world one would have a picking team like DRC or Leroy, but for a domaine that sells its Serpentières for 26.50 EUR including tax, machine harvesting may be a good solution. What’s more, the wines continue to perform very well in tastings and to age very well. I was impressed by Vincent’s candor, too, as I suspect there are plenty of growers who machine harvest at least some of their lesser appellations and (understandably) simple don’t mention it.
