---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 139791
topic_slug: red-burgundy-village-ageability
topic_title: "Red Burgundy - Village, ageability?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/red-burgundy-village-ageability/139791
post_id: 2339756
post_number: 8
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/red-burgundy-village-ageability/139791/8
date: "2018-01-19"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 415
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:59+00:00"
---

In the 2015 vintage, my supposition is that this wine will hit its stride at around age 5-8 and enjoy fully 20 years of longevity, though of course your mileage may vary depending on the conditions in which you store it. I’ve had CdN villages from vintages such as 1959 and 1976 which are still full of fruit, but obviously one can only extrapolate so much.

Looking at the Drouhin website, the information about this particular cuvée is a little contradictory, as it specifies ‘the southern end of the Côte de Nuits’, and then goes on to list all the villages entitled to CdN villages, including Couchey and Brochon to the north. But although Comblanchien, Premeaux and Corgoloin do seem to produce wines that are noticeably different from Couchey and Brochon, that doesn’t really impact how the wine will age, as both should be pretty long lived.

In any case, some of the vineyards classified as CdN villages are really pretty high quality. For example, the vineyard that is the continuation of the 1er Cru Clos de la Marechale, abutting the clos to the south but technically over the boundary in Comblanchien (whereas the Clos is in Premeaux), is merely CdN villages. Jadot make a very good CdN villages from vines here which punches above its weight. Or consider the Que d’Hareng in Brochon which is effectively a continuation of the fine Gevrey lieu-dit Les Evocelles, and which is the source of Bachelet’s CdN village and I think Joseph Roty’s. There is no reason why sites like these should produce wines that don’t age for similar lifespans as their neighbors, unless they’re made differently—which, of course, ‘lesser’ appellations often are.

Indeed, one of the paradoxes of Burgundy is that the lower appellations, which need the most tender loving care, generally get the least. Yields are more restricted in the grands crus, where it’s easiest to ripen a large crop, and most generous in the village and generic sites, where it is often harder to ripen grapes. In turn, producers tend to privilege the higher appellations in viticultural effort, timeliness of harvest, attentiveness and technique in the cuverie, quality of new oak, and duration of maturation. The sum of all this is that the appellation hierarchy is something of a self-fulfilling prophesy—as well as, of course, a classification that generally maps quite accurately the gradations of suitableness for viticulture of the various climats.
