---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 140303
topic_slug: tn-2015-domaine-leflaive-puligny-montrachet-1er-cru-les-folatieres
topic_title: "TN: 2015 Domaine Leflaive Puligny-Montrachet 1er Cru Les Folatières"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2015-domaine-leflaive-puligny-montrachet-1er-cru-les-folatieres/140303
post_id: 2352740
post_number: 7
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2015-domaine-leflaive-puligny-montrachet-1er-cru-les-folatieres/140303/7
date: "2018-02-04"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William Kelley: This is under DIAM 30 and is the first vintage of Leflaive to reflect a number of winemaking changes designed to tackle the premox issue. Those include more attention to press fractions, browning of the must, new custom-sized racking tanks, racking under nitrogen etc etc. Report and…"
word_count: 264
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:59+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William Kelley: This is under DIAM 30 and is the first vintage of Leflaive to reflect a number of winemaking changes designed to tackle the premox issue. Those include more attention to press fractions, browning of the must, new custom-sized racking tanks, racking under nitrogen etc etc. Report and…

Leflaive’s winemaking is more of a moving target than that, having evolved under François Virot and Jean Virot, and then under Pierre Morey from 1988 onwards, and then under Eric Remy, and now under Pierre Vincent—to say nothing of the important influence exercised by Vincent Leflaive, Anne-Claude Leflaive and now Brice de La Morandière. It isn’t always easy to figure out exactly what was going on at any given period, for obvious reasons. But in the Morey era, the Domaine began to perform more battonage, moved to native ferments, and after 2004 seems to have used less SO2. They also bought Bucher pneumatic presses which offered the possibility of more rapid pressing. Beginning I don’t know when, the domaine was also fermenting the wines in a cellar near the church and then transporting them in cask across the town back to the domaine for tank-aging. The changes under the new regime seem to be oriented towards longer pressing, and then reducing dissolved oxygen in the wine, as well as maintaining SO2 levels (something I think Morey was actually very fastidious about - I’m assuming the decision to reduce them can from Anne-Claude Leflaive). Hence racking and sparging with nitrogen and doing the whole elevage in the cellars by the church (in the new tanks). I don’t think those could be called new techniques, though they in some cases involve new technology. That’s as good an answer as I can give for now; I’m going to discuss it in more detail next time I visit.
