---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 141819
topic_slug: rousseau-is-it-overrated-by-us-critics
topic_title: "Rousseau: is it overrated by us critics ?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/rousseau-is-it-overrated-by-us-critics/141819
post_id: 2399014
post_number: 85
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/rousseau-is-it-overrated-by-us-critics/141819/85
date: "2018-04-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 353
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

Rousseau have quite extensive holdings, and there is some variation in vine genetics, vine age and farming across them. Since the addition of the holdings of the Château de Gevrey-Chambertin (in Gevrey villages, LSJ and Charmes-Chambertin), the picture has become even more complicated. My understanding is that the domaine’s vines in Charmes-Chambertin, for example, are young and tend to crop at the appellation maximum. FWIW, to my palate, the Cazetiers is the most “under-rated” wine in the cellar. I’m not convinced by the Charmes or the Clos de la Roche, though between the mid-2000s and 2012 or so they did seem to be improving. To really measure their quality, it’s not enough to say that they’re very nice wines: one must compare them with the benchmarks in their respective appellations. So while Rousseau Charmes may be a very tasty bottle of Pinot Noir, it would be difficult to claim it’s on a par with, e.g. Denis Bachelet’s (and one could think of a handful of others too) in terms of depth, dimension, character and concentration.

Whether as critics or consumers, it’s important to acknowledge manifest greatness without descending into blind veneration. Whether it’s Rousseau, or some of the others cited here as Domaines that can do no wrong (DRC and Liger-Belair have both been nominated), no domaine is immune to ups and downs, traumatic generational transitions, or even just unhappy accidents: for example, as is well known, most of Rousseau’s 1979s and some of their 1978s had to be sent to the distillery because of microbiological spoilage. Now another generational transition is underway chez Rousseau, and we should all be following the wines with interest.

Louis-Michel Liger-Belair likes to say that a grand cru is ‘10% wine, 90% imagination’. That’s as true of Burgundy’s great domaines as it is of its greatest vineyards.

All that said by way of a qualifying preamble, the Rousseau Chambertin is clearly some way ahead of Trapet’s, and it is indeed perplexing that anyone would suggest otherwise.
