---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 142266
topic_slug: what-is-the-role-of-active-yeast-versus-cultured-yeast-in-winemaking
topic_title: "What is the role of active yeast versus cultured yeast in winemaking?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-is-the-role-of-active-yeast-versus-cultured-yeast-in-winemaking/142266
post_id: 2398477
post_number: 21
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-is-the-role-of-active-yeast-versus-cultured-yeast-in-winemaking/142266/21
date: "2018-04-16"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 266
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:58+00:00"
---

The Williams Selyem yeast strain was isolated from Martinelli’s Jackass Hill Zinfandel vineyard. For decades, the Martinelli family had been spreading the pomace from successful ferments back on the vineyard, inoculating the vineyard, if you will (which used to be common in the Old World too). The strain that came to dominate that niche is capable of fermenting very high sugar musts to dryness and is able to withstand high temperatures (>105 degrees).

I have always suspected that the microbiome of the vineyards of France was heavily disrupted by the use of synthetic fungicides and other agrochemicals.

People are very naive about this subject. As Peynaud says, ‘the winemaker must imagine that every surface of the winery is entirely covered with a film of yeast’ (or words to that effect). So what does a ‘native’ fermentation mean? When DRC ferment their wines with ambient microbes, what are the chances that those microbes include the selected yeasts used in the vats of Gros Frères et Soeurs not far away? When Mugneret-Gibourg do native ferments today, having inoculated in the past, how many of the strains they used to employ remain in the winery buildings and involve themselves in the fermentations?

While today, few producers in Burgundy admit to inoculating, the availability of selected microbial cultures in the enology stores on the Beaune ring road seem to suggest that some demand remains. It’s not something I tend to interrogate producers about, not only because the philosophy behind the debate is a little confused, but also because I wouldn’t count on getting an honest answer.
