---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 142319
topic_slug: need-a-2015-for-the-long-haul
topic_title: "Need a 2015 for the long haul"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/need-a-2015-for-the-long-haul/142319
post_id: 2400244
post_number: 43
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/need-a-2015-for-the-long-haul/142319/43
date: "2018-04-19"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 294
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:58+00:00"
---

Not sure I would be laying down Insignia and Rubicon for 20+ years, especially the former. A lot has changed since those great wines of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, so extrapolate from chalk to cheese at your peril… From California, Ridge Monte Bello, Philip Togni and Dunn Howell Mountain are the obvious choices, all of which I am buying for my daughter’s vintage in some quantity (born 2017), and all of which are less expensive than Insignia (at least from the wineries).

For 2015s from France and Germany, you’re spoilt for choice.

Some of Weingut Keller’s GGs would be great.

Prüm, Willi Schaefer and Zilliken at all Praedikat levels are also worth acquiring, as are plenty of other Germans.

From Burgundy, there are plenty of top choices, all pretty pricy. Alain Gras’ Auxey-Duresses Vieilles Vignes and Pierre Guillemot’s Savigny Serpentieres will both see out their twentieth birthday in style, and be quite affordable too. Michel Juillot’s Mercurey Clos du Roi in magnum would be an insider’s choice, as would Ramonet’s Clos de la Boudriotte red Chassagne. Somewhat more expensive, Mugnier’s Clos de la Maréchale is superb and easily a forty year wine. If you’re prepared to pay the price of admission, the 2015 Clos de Tart is a monster, but far more complex and emotion-inducing than Sylvain Pitiot’s similarly large-scaled vintages; it should be easy to find. Dujac’s Clos de la Roche is a beauty.

In Bordeaux, I would buy Grand-Puy-Lacoste in magnums.

While not all 2015 Beaujolais are made for the long haul, I would also lay down magnums of the Clos de la Roilette Cuvée Tardive from Fleurie, which wouldn’t be expensive to do.
