---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 143615
topic_slug: madame-bize-leroy-making-wine-to-a-recipe
topic_title: "Madame Bize-Leroy: making wine to a recipe?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/madame-bize-leroy-making-wine-to-a-recipe/143615
post_id: 2430077
post_number: 4
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/madame-bize-leroy-making-wine-to-a-recipe/143615/4
date: "2018-06-11"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 305
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:58+00:00"
---

I’ll attempt to clear up some of the confusion.

Lalou Bize-Leroy directs three enterprises:

1. Maison Leroy, which celebrates its 150th anniversary, a négociant that purchases wines and bottles them, releasing them under its label. Traditionally the Maison was a serious négociant and often sourced from good growers, e.g. the Charmes-Chambertin came from Pierre Dugat. Obviously, as more and more of the best growers bottle themselves, that gets harder and harder. It’s Maison Leroy that produces Bourgogne Rouge and Blanc. For the Japanese market, they even bottle a Beaujolais Nouveau. Prices are quite high from the cellars, especially for older wines, and they also benefit from the cachet of the Leroy name. But there is a big difference between e.g. a Clos Vougeot from Maison Leroy and the Clos Vougeot from Domaine Leroy.
1. Domaine Leroy. Assembled in the late 1980s from estates that Lalou purchased, as well as vineyards the family already owned (Maison Leroy owned a parcel of Chambertin back into the 1930s, for example). Viticulture is biodynamic and the canopies are rolled instead of being hedged. Yields are low, and vine genetics tend to be good. With the exception of a white Corton-Charlemagne and an Aligoté, all the Domaine Leroy wines are red.
1. Domaine d’Auvenay. A domaine Lalou inherited and assembled at an old diary farm in the hills above Saint Romain. With the exception of Mazis-Chambertin and Bonnes-Mares, all the d’Auvenay wines are white. The portfolio includes an incredible aligoté and an Auxey-Duresses Les Boutonniers which would embarrass many grands crus. The pinnacle is the Chevalier-Montrachet which I would argue is the best white wine made in Burgundy.

Because the labels are similar, entities (1) and (2) are frequently conflated, but they couldn’t be more different.
