---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 144050
topic_slug: grands-crus-vs-premier-crus-what-s-the-difference
topic_title: "GRANDS CRUS vs. Premier Crus - what´s the difference?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/grands-crus-vs-premier-crus-what-s-the-difference/144050
post_id: 2441330
post_number: 29
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/grands-crus-vs-premier-crus-what-s-the-difference/144050/29
date: "2018-07-01"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 231
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:58+00:00"
---

I think we’ve discussed it before, but the classification system has a tendency to become a self-fulfilling prophesy. Grands Crus, in short, are the sites that ripen grapes most completely most reliably; they’re the most resilient in extreme heat, in rainy years, in cool years. Winemakers often say that the musts from grands crus tend to be the most balanced and the easiest to vinfiy. This has to do with exposition, mesoclimate, geology / soil chemistry and hydrology. It follows that grands crus could reliably ripen the largest yields. Yet permitted yields are most restricted in the grands crus and more liberal in the more marginal sites. In turn, lower appellation sites are more likely to be planted with poor quality, higher yielding vine genetics; and they sell for a lower price, so producers are incentivized to pursue quantity. Grands crus will always be prioritized when making harvesting decisions, and will receive the most attentive and serious winemaking, including the best cooperage. All this reinforces a vicious cycle. Whole communes such as Marsannay and Santenay are victims of this vicious cycle, to say nothing of the Côte Chalonnaise. Which explains why communal appellation bottlings from great producers can transcend mediocre producers’ grands crus: while a great site gives you a great advantage, there’s a lot a diligent grower can make communal appellations more competitive with the grands crus.
