---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 144312
topic_slug: tn-2006-domaine-louis-michel-chablis-1er-cru-montmains-screw-cap
topic_title: "TN: 2006 Domaine Louis Michel Chablis 1er Cru Montmains SCREW CAP"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2006-domaine-louis-michel-chablis-1er-cru-montmains-screw-cap/144312
post_id: 2450806
post_number: 29
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2006-domaine-louis-michel-chablis-1er-cru-montmains-screw-cap/144312/29
date: "2018-07-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Helpful comments, William. Question: I’m sitting on some '15 and '16 Dauvissat Forest. Any predictions on aging and which would you open first? I’d like to crack one soon for science."
word_count: 249
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:58+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Helpful comments, William. Question: I’m sitting on some '15 and '16 Dauvissat Forest. Any predictions on aging and which would you open first? I’d like to crack one soon for science.

I bought three cases of the 2015 Dauvissat Forest (the Dauvissat-Camus label which is still stupidly cheap in the UK) on the basis that it would be nice to own some Dauvissat that would drink well in its youth.

Of course, I should have known better. It has shut down hard and become awkward already. I have a lot of confidence in it, but won’t be pulling corks for five or six years. It is not much fun to drink right now (I’m three bottles down, so trust me).

If you have your 2016s in hand, try one. They’re some of the best wines of the vintage. But it might not be a crime to drink them young. Some of my 2013 Dauvissat (an inferior vintage but one which shares some characteristics in terms of lower acidity and musky, exotic qualities - from botrytis rather than super low yields as in '16) I drank when they were young with great pleasure; I regretted waiting on the rest.

My favorite recent Dauvissat vintage for current consumption is 2008 (always perfect when drunk in France, often oxidized in UK and USA). 2006s are showing way better than they were a few years ago. And 2010s are beginning to open up, they’re less tight than you’d expect. Perplexingly, 2011 Preuses is more open than 2011 Forest—go figure. 2012 and 2014 I am trying to forget.

Looking a bit further back, 2000s and 2002s are really singing.
