---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 144312
topic_slug: tn-2006-domaine-louis-michel-chablis-1er-cru-montmains-screw-cap
topic_title: "TN: 2006 Domaine Louis Michel Chablis 1er Cru Montmains SCREW CAP"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2006-domaine-louis-michel-chablis-1er-cru-montmains-screw-cap/144312
post_id: 2450717
post_number: 27
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2006-domaine-louis-michel-chablis-1er-cru-montmains-screw-cap/144312/27
date: "2018-07-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 244
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:58+00:00"
---

Just read the kind comments here - thank you all.

Frankly, I wish I had started to cover Chablis for TWA with a vintage such as 2012, 2014 or even 2017. But it is what it is. At least in Burgundy, the wines will sell out whatever I write, so there is little danger of ruining anyone with a negative review.

In 2016 in Chablis, there was frost, hail and then, in some places, botrytis. There are some lovely wines (Patrick Piuze’s Roncières, Natalie Oudin’s premiers crus, Tribut’s Beauroy to name a couple that aren’t from Raveneau or Dauvissat that I own or would be happy to own). But many are atypically rich, exotic and musky, with quite low acids. As several producers joked, when you smell the wines, “you could be in Alsace”. This wasn’t so apparent from barrel as it is from bottle, and I expect those qualities to amplify with bottle age.

2016 Côte de Beaune is more complicated, with some rich, musky wines (where low yields from frosted sites ripened rapidly); some tart, angular wines (where 2nd and 3rd generation grapes were harvested along with what remained of the original crop); and some very classic, attractive wines. And it’s not simply a case of three categories: think of it as a spectrum. Most producers said they were happy if they simply made wines that were true to their house style and true to the site.
