---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 145265
topic_slug: what-happened-to-robert-parker-state-of-wine-criticism-in-2018
topic_title: "What happened to Robert Parker?  State of Wine Criticism in 2018"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-happened-to-robert-parker-state-of-wine-criticism-in-2018/145265
post_id: 2475322
post_number: 76
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-happened-to-robert-parker-state-of-wine-criticism-in-2018/145265/76
date: "2018-09-01"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "What dismays me is the way that these competing critics have all raised their scoring. Now you can piss in a bucket and expect 90 points. It’s especially problematic in Australia with the Halliday scoring, where 95 is now quite a normal score. Parker used to use a much bigger range: go to one of…"
word_count: 257
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> What dismays me is the way that these competing critics have all raised their scoring. Now you can piss in a bucket and expect 90 points. It’s especially problematic in Australia with the Halliday scoring, where 95 is now quite a normal score. Parker used to use a much bigger range: go to one of…

I think another dimension to this is that sub-90 scores don’t really impact the market one way or another. If, in the final analysis, scoring wine is about directing readers to wines that one likes and away from wines that one doesn’t, that’s a problem. This is especially an issue in regions where the wines can’t trade on the cachet of existing reputations. If I give a very good Vosne-Romanée AOC 88/100, the wine will continue to sell just fine and consumers won’t be deterred from tasting it. But if I taste an excellent Beaujolais-Villages from a serious producer and give it 88/100, that will do next to nothing to make consumers try that wine—and by extension next to nothing to encourage that producer to continue e.g. farming well, limiting yields, etc.

Speaking personally, I do not give any thought to shelf talkers when I review wines, and I think serious consumers are becoming increasingly skeptical of hyperbole in any case. But I do want to direct wine drinkers to excellence (as I perceive it), and to encourage producers in economically marginal appellations (e.g. Beaujolais-Villages, Mâcon-Villages, the Côte Chalonnaise) to pursue quality and improvement.

Lest this be misunderstood, this is not in any sense a defense of ‘grade inflation’. I think I’m a pretty conservative scorer and I try to score wines on a broad range that meaningfully differentiates nice from nasty. But it is a point worth thinking about pragmatically.
