---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 145265
topic_slug: what-happened-to-robert-parker-state-of-wine-criticism-in-2018
topic_title: "What happened to Robert Parker?  State of Wine Criticism in 2018"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-happened-to-robert-parker-state-of-wine-criticism-in-2018/145265
post_id: 2475694
post_number: 82
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-happened-to-robert-parker-state-of-wine-criticism-in-2018/145265/82
date: "2018-09-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I really doubt that the producer is going to change anything based on a score. Parker moved product so people wanted to please him. There just isn’t anyone who can move product like that these days, so very few people are going to make business decisions based on the scores of one critic or…"
word_count: 220
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I really doubt that the producer is going to change anything based on a score. Parker moved product so people wanted to please him. There just isn’t anyone who can move product like that these days, so very few people are going to make business decisions based on the scores of one critic or…

I think you would be surprised. I have heard from numerous producers, especially in humble appellations, that a nice score and a nice write up will bring importers knocking in droves. That is more of a nuisance to someone like Sebastian Caillat in Chassagne-Montrachet, who has no wine to sell and who is now being pestered after my write up, but in an economically marginal appellation, say the village of Pérreon in Beaujolais-Villages (to continue with the example I picked earlier), having a couple of importers could make the difference between carrying on farming the steep hillside vineyards or planting for mechanized harvesting on the plain. The corresponding difference in wine quality, by the way, is night and day.

While the audience I have in mind when I work is certainly the serious consumer or professional who reads the notes and knows the wines—and my reputation will stand or fall based on their evaluation of my work—it would be naive to the point of irresponsibility to ignore the fact the it’s the numbers that most of the trade, and most consumers too, look at first. So I have to think about them seriously. Bespoke hand selling is admirable and important, the vocation of the true wine merchant, but it’s not the whole wine market.
