---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 145469
topic_slug: tn-2012-domaine-berthaut-gerbet-fixin-les-crais-france-burgundy-cote-de-nuits-fixin
topic_title: "TN: 2012 Domaine Berthaut-Gerbet Fixin Les Crais (France, Burgundy, Côte de Nuits, Fixin)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2012-domaine-berthaut-gerbet-fixin-les-crais-france-burgundy-cote-de-nuits-fixin/145469
post_id: 2476005
post_number: 5
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2012-domaine-berthaut-gerbet-fixin-les-crais-france-burgundy-cote-de-nuits-fixin/145469/5
date: "2018-09-03"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 236
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:57+00:00"
---

This has always been a fine domaine, but Amelie has brought more structural finesse to the wines and also raised their reputation. They flew under the radar before, but they were always very good, and likely the best in the village (though there are one or two other interesting producers there that have no representation outside of France). I have 1988 Fixin Les Crais in my cellar that is drinking beautifully, still full of fruit. Amelie’s dad’s wines typically carried some serious structure, which took time to melt away. I think that was mainly because of the vinification - with malo in tank, not in barrel, and some old school pigeage. And even though her wines are a bit more polished, I believe they will reward sustained bottle age too.

The farming and vine material on the Gerbet side of the family was notably less interesting, so it will take some time for those vineyards to be brought up to the level of the Berthaut vineyards. To me, the most exciting wines in the cellar are the Fixin and Gevrey bottlings, along with the small production of Echezeaux (very old vines), but it has been amusing to watch the market pursue the Vosne 1er Crus more ardently. In time, once those vineyards are rehabilitated, I expect they will be superb, but for now my impression is that the raw materials are a work in progress.
