---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 146188
topic_slug: clive-coates-on-the-age-worthiness-of-beaujolais
topic_title: "Clive Coates on the age worthiness of Beaujolais"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/clive-coates-on-the-age-worthiness-of-beaujolais/146188
post_id: 2496217
post_number: 50
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/clive-coates-on-the-age-worthiness-of-beaujolais/146188/50
date: "2018-10-05"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Does anyone here know if and how winemaking in Beaujolais changed from say pre-1970 wines compared to the last couple decades? And have an opinion about whether Chauvet’s / Lapierre’s influence will affect longevity? I know many avid Beaujolais drinkers, who buy for their cellars but drink their…"
word_count: 360
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:47+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Does anyone here know if and how winemaking in Beaujolais changed from say pre-1970 wines compared to the last couple decades? And have an opinion about whether Chauvet’s / Lapierre’s influence will affect longevity? I know many avid Beaujolais drinkers, who buy for their cellars but drink their…

This could be a deep rabbit hole, but in brief, the tradition in Beaujolais was semi-carbonic maceration, i.e. whole clusters fermented with foot treading to crush some of the clusters and liberate a bit of juice. Maturation was in small used barrels, then in the late 19th and early 20th century in foudres (which were introduced from Alsace where they were used for beer, interestingly). In the 20th century, concrete and then stainless steel entered the picture. Farming head trained Gamay is quite labor intensive, so as soon as producers could afford it chemical farming and fertilizer were adopted pretty zealously. By the 1970s, folks started doing full carbonic maceration to make fruitier, easier-drinking wines (same thing happened with Loire Cabernet Franc), typically with selected yeasts and sterile filtration. In the last couple of decades, thermovinifcaiton has become the big thing, and lots of Beaujolais is made that way today.

But you can find everything, from “Burgundian” vindication of destemmed fruit with long macerations (e.g. JP Brun), to classic semi-carbonic (e.g. Lafarge-Vial, Coudert, Daniel Bouland, Desvignes), to full carbonic [you actually leave the tank’s tap open so no juicy collects] (e.g. Alex Foillard, Marc Delienne, Chapel etc etc). As for Chauvet’s influence, he was a microbiologist and used to bulk out any wine that didn’t turn out well - the late Marcel Lapierre did the same. Jean Foillard’s best vintages with very little or no SO2 are able to age for twenty years. But given the immediacy of the wines and the fact that they can develop erratically, I don’t think there’s a strong argument for keeping no-sulfur Beaujolais that long.

Trends that would have made your average Beaujolais less age-worthy from the 1970s on would have been shorter macerations and more processing of the finished wine (especially aggressive filtration), plus overcropping. Today, wines made by thermovinification don’t seem good candidates for sustained bottle age. But as John and others have said, this is a producer by producer question, and there are plenty of producers who kept on making serious and age worthy wines.
