---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 146887
topic_slug: the-safest-white-burgs
topic_title: "The Safest White Burgs"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/the-safest-white-burgs/146887
post_id: 2512649
post_number: 43
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/the-safest-white-burgs/146887/43
date: "2018-10-31"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I wonder if we are going to start seeing oxidized coche with the regime change. Seems to have far less sulfur / matchstick on the nose now. Raphael is still pressing like his father, with lots of dry extract in the wines, and the élevage is just as detail-oriented, so is the bottling. I am not too…"
word_count: 167
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:56+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I wonder if we are going to start seeing oxidized coche with the regime change. Seems to have far less sulfur / matchstick on the nose now. Raphael is still pressing like his father, with lots of dry extract in the wines, and the élevage is just as detail-oriented, so is the bottling. I am not too…

A lot of the winemaking practices that are likely culpable (lots of new wood, battonage, using mechanical bottling lines instead of bottling barrel-by-barrel by hand in the cellar) were being widely adopted then, add to which a nadir for closures and a vintage amazingly high in malic acid that would naturally have produced very taut, long-lived wines that needed a long time in barrel to process their malic acid and clarify. Producers wanted them to taste more approachable young and to get them to market sooner, so they heated cellars (Arnaud Ente remembers sweating in the cellar in 1996) and stirred like crazy. I suspect plenty used clarification enzymes and filtered to get the wines clear and in bottle. When you add terrible corks—in its own right a sufficient explanation in some cases—into the mix 1996 makes sense.

And it’s worth adding that consumers’ high expectations for the longevity of the 1996 white Burgundies likely threw the problems into heightened relief.
