---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 147019
topic_slug: meursault-vs-puligny-rajat-parr
topic_title: "Meursault vs Puligny - Rajat Parr"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/meursault-vs-puligny-rajat-parr/147019
post_id: 2517486
post_number: 25
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/meursault-vs-puligny-rajat-parr/147019/25
date: "2018-11-07"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 265
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:56+00:00"
---

This is an interesting question, and I think underlines the extent to which the distinctive profiles that we identify with the wines of the different villages are the outcome of human culture overlayed on the climats.

Traditionally, élevage was long in Meursault because cellars are deep and cool; in Puligny, the water table is high so there are no deep cellars, élevage is shorter and often concluded in tank (Virot at Leflaive started doing that in the 1920s I believe, though some refer to it today as the “Roulot method”). In Chassagne, the tradition was to prune in cordon, making for smaller berries with less juice than the Guyot pruning in Puligny. Meursault was often more reductive, with more lees-stirring (Pierre Morey arguably made the Leflaive wines in the image of Meursault). Add to that sort of thing the influence of negociants who had an idea of appellations such as Puligny, Meursault, Pommard etc and blended accordingly to make the wines conform to consumer expectations. Today, winemaking practices vary as much within villages as between them, as do viticultural techniques, and instead of big négociant bottlings our idea of the identity of Meursault, Puligny etc are shaped by small cuvées from producers that tend to reflect the identity of a lieu-dit more than any hypothetical “average” of the village.

Jean-Marie Guffens likes to say that the irony of the AOC system is that it cuts north-south, whereas the terroir changes east-west up and down the slope. It’s a glib remark but there’s a lot of truth to it.
