---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 148760
topic_slug: revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine
topic_title: "Revue du Vin de France on Ripeness in White Wine"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine/148760
post_id: 2557270
post_number: 34
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine/148760/34
date: "2019-01-12"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "And as you know far more than I about Burgundy, I do have a question and he touched on it in the article - if they’re indeed harvesting earlier, does that necessarily imply more chaptalization? In other words, are the alcohol levels on white Burgundy declining with supposed earlier picking, or are…"
word_count: 202
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:56+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> And as you know far more than I about Burgundy, I do have a question and he touched on it in the article - if they’re indeed harvesting earlier, does that necessarily imply more chaptalization? In other words, are the alcohol levels on white Burgundy declining with supposed earlier picking, or are…

In short, yes.

Until recently, chaptalization was systematic, including at the best addresses. Jean-François Coche used to do it pretty much every year.

Now, attaining the necessary sugar is much less of an issue (2013 was probably the only vintage this decade were it was needed). But people sometimes feel obliged to pick on acidity, which can leave them with too little sugar, so they chaptalize to make up the difference. This will depend on site, rootstocks, yields, pruning and all sorts of factors. Arnaud Ente often has to chaptalize his Puligny Champ Gain, IIRC, because it tends to lose acid before it has as much sugar as he would like.

I have also heard that chaptalizing late, in barrel, is also a way to encourage the kind of reductive aromas that have been so popular in the last decade.

Alcohol is going to vary on a producer by producer basis but I would say that for folks like Ente and PYCM coming in at 12-12.5% finished alcohol, those numbers are lower than the average either today or ten years ago, and considerably lower than the numbers for the wines they made at the beginning of their careers too.
