---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 148760
topic_slug: revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine
topic_title: "Revue du Vin de France on Ripeness in White Wine"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine/148760
post_id: 2554182
post_number: 4
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine/148760/4
date: "2019-01-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 409
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:56+00:00"
---

It is an interesting question. Certainly, if you threw a Chablis premier cru from Raveneau into a blind tasting of contemporary Meursaults, it would likely be one of the broader, more textural wines - and that wouldn’t have been true two decades ago. (The side issue of reduction is a bit of a blind alley, I would suggest, as there have always been producers working, intentionally or otherwise, in a reductive style.) And you have very extreme winemaking going on in the Côte de Beaune to pursue this tangier, leaner, more minimalist style: one darling of this board picked his 2018s at around 11-11.5% potential alcohol and chaptalized to 12.5%. Meanwhile, others who didn’t make their 2018s like that have been accused of doing so on social media: the debate in the region has become somewhat heated. And while we’re not at a “tipping point”, I do think the nature of ripeness is going to be interrogated a bit more thoroughly. The discussion in the French press is perhaps even a bit more advanced than in the Anglophone world, I’m not sure.

But the current state of affairs was created by the market. At the end of the day, most producers make the wines they think their clients want and tell journalists what they think journalists want to hear, so when almost everyone in the Côte de Beaune introduces their wines by saying, “I picked early to retain freshness”, what’s going on isn’t a mystery. Since you can’t know what’s “early” and what’s “late” without knowing the character of the mesoclimate, the soil hydrology, the rootstocks, the vine selections, the yield and the farming, I refrain from judging the wines based on the harvest date—I don’t even systematically inquire. But I do get the sense that producers are still getting asked when they harvest a lot.

The more interesting question is how to make classically balanced, age-worthy white Burgundies in what is seemingly a new era of warmer vintages that have—2018 excepted—also thus far been lower yielding vintages for white. There are viticultural and technical solutions that producers such as Raphaël Coche, Olivier Lamy and others are thinking about very seriously. And it’s extremely interesting. To my mind, simply picking on pH and then having to chaptalize by two degrees to produce a certain style of wine is not a sustainable solution.
