---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 148760
topic_slug: revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine
topic_title: "Revue du Vin de France on Ripeness in White Wine"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine/148760
post_id: 2557511
post_number: 39
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/revue-du-vin-de-france-on-ripeness-in-white-wine/148760/39
date: "2019-01-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Hello William, Good morning to the speakers of this discussion, I rise here because my text of September 7 was quoted in your debate. initially he did not name any producer and does not seek to do so. it is a simple observation related to observed practices that denature the wines. We are not…"
word_count: 197
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:56+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Hello William, Good morning to the speakers of this discussion, I rise here because my text of September 7 was quoted in your debate. initially he did not name any producer and does not seek to do so. it is a simple observation related to observed practices that denature the wines. We are not…

Thanks for contributing, Patrick. I am sympathetic to your argument that grapes harvested too early and adjusted in the winery will never fully express their appellations. And I can imagine how frustrating it is when you feel that wines are pre-judged by journalists in function of the date of harvest. I appreciate that you feel very strongly about this important question, and it is brave of you to address it so directly. But I think that when you called colleagues who picked in August the “new phylloxera” and imputed not only that they would necessarily need to chaptalize and adjust their musts, but that their goal was to have higher yields (if I have understood your French text correctly), your text became polemical. I have seen must analyses for grapes picked in August last year that have more than 12.5% potential alcohol, as well as very healthy pH and TA. And while some producers may be unscrupulous, there are dedicated and experienced vignerons who picked early, in good faith, because they thought it would make better wines. Even if we happen to disagree with the philosophy or its results, we mustn’t disparage their motives.
