---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 149217
topic_slug: 2017-beaujolais
topic_title: "2017 Beaujolais"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2017-beaujolais/149217
post_id: 2652737
post_number: 44
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2017-beaujolais/149217/44
date: "2019-06-06"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "lleichtman: I tasted VA in a Thivin 2018 recently. Was the Moulin a Vent. It was also way too young. I had no idea Thivin made a M-a-V. Is that new?"
word_count: 336
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:53+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> lleichtman: I tasted VA in a Thivin 2018 recently. Was the Moulin a Vent. It was also way too young. I had no idea Thivin made a M-a-V. Is that new?

If they do, they never presented it to me—and I was there Tuesday! Didn’t notice notable levels of VA in any of their 2018s, which across the board showed very well.

In general, in fact, I am being positively surprised by my tastings of 2018s. Thinking aloud, and without mature reflection, the vintage is perhaps best characterized as a juicier, less tannic version of 2015: the fruit is ripe and sun-kissed, the acidities comparatively low, but—thanks to the high yields—the wines retain the juicy succulence and facility that is such a distinguishing feature of Gamay, and they are not wrapped up in hyper-concentration and structure like some of the 2015s where. Quite a few producers are drawing parallels with 2011, and while I think 2018 is a riper vintage than 2011 in the final analysis, such a comparison does betray confidence. I can certainly say that the immediacy and expressive fruit of the 2018s that I have tasted will make them very appealing to a broad audience. And interestingly, perhaps suggesting that the experience derived from vintages such as 2017 and 2015 has not been wasted, a number of low sulfur producers talked about how they had surveilled their fermentations under the microscope, taken pains to make sure their tanks were well blanketed with CO2 (for those working with carbonic maceration), and sometimes added more sulfur than usual, or brought the lees into suspension, or otherwise intervened, to ensure clean, stable wines. Naturally, I am visiting what are to my mind the best and most interesting producers, but the cleanliness and purity of fruit I’ve found in the 2018s I have tasted thus far, from the top addresses, is markedly better than what I had been expecting. The lack of hail damage that marked 2016 and 2017, especially in Fleurie and Moulin-à-Vent as well as parts of Morgon, also makes for more homogeneity among the top producers who were able to manage the challenging fermentations in 2018.
