---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 149547
topic_slug: burgundy-wines
topic_title: "Burgundy Wines"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/burgundy-wines/149547
post_id: 2573318
post_number: 9
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/burgundy-wines/149547/9
date: "2019-01-30"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 278
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:55+00:00"
---

My advice would be to start in the south. It’s made from a different grape and grows in different soils, but Beaujolais is technically part of Burgundy, and the wines can offer some of the aromatic range and aesthetic of Burgundy, typically in a more immediate format that can be viscerally drinkable on release. With good cru Beaujolais, you will find the same variables of soil, exposition, mesoclimate and winemaking that lie behind the differences that define the Côte d’Or’s wines. You might look for producers such as Foillard, Diochon and Daniel Bouland in the 2017 vintage.

If those wines appeal to you, head north. Try some Mercurey reds from François Raquillet, the Château de Chamirey and Faiveley. 2016 and 2015 are both strong vintages. They will offer more character and interest than most Bourgogne Rouge for a more modest tariff. Again, with different vineyards and producers, the optic is the same as you will find in the Côte d’Or.

Then look at the Côte d’Or. But wines from there often need some time, so it will take more work to find a mature or maturing example. You might as well start with something good that’s showing its hand. A 2007 Chambolle-Musigny 1er Cru Les Cras from Domaine Roumier would be a good jumping off point.

As for books, a second hand copy of the out-of-print Making Sense of Burgundy by Matt Kramer could be a good investment in understanding the region’s guiding philosophy (albeit in an extreme and somewhat idealized form), and Jasper Morris’ Inside Burgundy is a great reference book, with a new edition coming soon.
