---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 149918
topic_slug: burgundy-morey
topic_title: "Burgundy: Morey"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/burgundy-morey/149918
post_id: 2584017
post_number: 21
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/burgundy-morey/149918/21
date: "2019-02-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Jouan (like Paul Pillot in Puligny) sells a lot of wine to Drouhin in barrel, so if you find the Drouhin Clos Saint-Denis or Clos Sorbé, it is likely the Jouan wine. As Jouan uses François Frères “Drouhin toast” for his own wines, they are very similar. That’s interesting. So any bottles of Drouhin…"
word_count: 215
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:55+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Jouan (like Paul Pillot in Puligny) sells a lot of wine to Drouhin in barrel, so if you find the Drouhin Clos Saint-Denis or Clos Sorbé, it is likely the Jouan wine. As Jouan uses François Frères “Drouhin toast” for his own wines, they are very similar. That’s interesting. So any bottles of Drouhin…

The Jouan CSD is excellent, from very old vines and very well made, so it is no bad thing! I think they can both be proud of the association.

And yes, this is still quite common in Burgundy as a whole. A producer such as Jadot will make the distinction between “vinfié, élevé et mise en bouteille” and “élevé et mise en bouteille”, but not all négociants make this so clear. Many will deposit their own barrels before the harvest and collect the wine once they have been filled. And there is still a healthy market for wines in barrel that producers decide, for whatever reason, to sell. Sometimes that is just a habit: Coche-Dury, for example, still sell Meursault wine to an important négociant, because they have a long-standing relationship (it goes into the blend, in case you were wondering). Other times, it will be a way to get rid of wine that they don’t want to include in the blend. This is all perfectly legal and above board. But it does contribute to a certain heterogeneity across many of the big négociant ranges which makes tasting there quite fun, as quality doesn’t always uniformly follow the appellation hierarchy and it is satisfying to identify the highs and the lows.
