---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 150843
topic_slug: tn-2017-beau-rivage-chenin-blanc-usa-california-central-valley-clarksburg
topic_title: "TN: 2017 Beau Rivage Chenin Blanc (USA, California, Central Valley, Clarksburg)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2017-beau-rivage-chenin-blanc-usa-california-central-valley-clarksburg/150843
post_id: 2620565
post_number: 7
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2017-beau-rivage-chenin-blanc-usa-california-central-valley-clarksburg/150843/7
date: "2019-04-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Opening a Vinum Cellars Clarksburg Chenin tonight with grilled salmon. When I was out in Clarksburg about 5 years ago there was very little small producer Chenin available to taste. I wonder if the situation has changed?"
word_count: 264
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:53+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Opening a Vinum Cellars Clarksburg Chenin tonight with grilled salmon. When I was out in Clarksburg about 5 years ago there was very little small producer Chenin available to taste. I wonder if the situation has changed?

I think people are beginning to take an interest - but hopefully not too late, as lots of Chenin has been ripped up to be replaced by Chardonnay, Pinot Noir, Petite etc over the last couple of decades.

I would add that there is often a vicious cycle, whereby comparatively inexpensive grapes are not given the same attention as more expensive grapes in the winery. We are always there to supervise the pick (among other things, ensuring no stunted grapes from eutypa-infected vines make it into the bins). Then the grapes go over a sorting table with five or six people sorting (mainly for unripe clusters and botrytis). And then we taste at the press. The must then ferments in used barrels and demi muids from top coopers such as Gauthier. While there are a variety of things one might like to change about the vineyard (clones, yields), so far the end result suggests that the grapes merit the work. By contrast, I suspect most Clarksburg Chenin isn’t sorted and is tank fermented, which—especially at quite low brix—is inevitably going to give a much more herbaceous, grassy style of wine, and one with a lot less texture and dimension.

As for the best French analogy for the style of the wine, I would suggest a Saumur Blanc or a dry Anjou as the best fit—though the Savennières analogy is certainly flattering! Compared to Loire Chenin, our acids are a bit lower but we have no residual sugar, so we are are some distance from the sweet-sour dynamic of Vouvray.
