---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 150912
topic_slug: tn-taste-off-two-inexpensive-chablis
topic_title: "TN: Taste-Off: Two Inexpensive Chablis"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-taste-off-two-inexpensive-chablis/150912
post_id: 2673456
post_number: 29
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-taste-off-two-inexpensive-chablis/150912/29
date: "2019-07-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Two more basic Chablis you may want to try are by Christian Moreau and Moreau-Naudet. I am more sure about the Moreau-Naudet wines from 2015 and before. Stephane Moreau died in August of 2016. I understand his wife is now making the wine, but I have not tried any yet. They’re still good! And very…"
word_count: 224
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:54+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Two more basic Chablis you may want to try are by Christian Moreau and Moreau-Naudet. I am more sure about the Moreau-Naudet wines from 2015 and before. Stephane Moreau died in August of 2016. I understand his wife is now making the wine, but I have not tried any yet. They’re still good! And very…

That’s a big question, but in brief, it’s a lovely white Burgundy vintage. It’s lower in acidity and generally more floral and expressive than 2014, but still nicely succulent, with lots of charm but tension, too. And the wines have become tighter-knit with élevage - something that was especially noticeable at the best Chablis producers I visited, and also chez Guffens-Heynen in the Mâconnais, but also to some extent in the Côte d’Or. It’s quite consistently good from the Mâconnais up to Chablis (with a special shout out, while I think of it, for Vincent Dureuil-Janthial’s Rully whites, which are the best I’ve ever tasted from him). John Gilman compared 2017 whites to 1992, and the more I think about it, the more that makes sense as the best analogy out there. So the style of 2017 is really quite different from the style of 2014, but it is a very high quality vintage.

I have purchased and am purchasing quite broadly for my own cellar: in no particular order, I’ve bought Hubert Lamy, Niellon, Guffens-Heynen, Dureuil-Janthial, J Carillon, a bit of Rapet, Dauvissat, Raveneau, Moreau-Naudet, Sauzet, Marc Colin and will be buying Ramonet, as well as a bit of Coche and Lafon since it’s my daughter’s birth year.
