---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 151047
topic_slug: is-les-narvaux-meursaults-best-non-1er-cru-vineyard
topic_title: "Is Les Narvaux Meursault's best non-1er Cru Vineyard?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/is-les-narvaux-meursaults-best-non-1er-cru-vineyard/151047
post_id: 2612682
post_number: 14
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/is-les-narvaux-meursaults-best-non-1er-cru-vineyard/151047/14
date: "2019-03-31"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "And once you exclude Coche, Ente, Roulot … and look at accessible producers, still the same ranking and characteristics?"
word_count: 215
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:55+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> And once you exclude Coche, Ente, Roulot … and look at accessible producers, still the same ranking and characteristics?

The problem is that there is no ‘control experiment’, and I would always rather drink a great producer’s communal wine than a poor producer’s grand or premier cru. Lalou’s Narvaux is better than most Montrachets, and I would opt for JM Roulot or Anne Morey’s Tesson over the vast majority of premier cru Meursault. So what you are really asking, I suppose, is who are the top producers of wine from Meursault’s best lieux-dits that remain relatively under-valued?

For me, one of the better values in lieu-dit Meursault these days is definitely Girardin’s Narvaux, since 2008 they have taken a new direction with much less new oak and working of the lees, and longer elevage. The wines are now very serious, but I don’t think that has been fully registered in the marketplace yet.

If you can source Boisson-Vadot / Pierre Boisson / Anne Boisson Chevalières or Grands Charrons for a good price, don’t hesitate - 2015 is especially strong.

Coche-Bizouard makes a great under-the-radar Chevalières, the 2017 is superb and I bought large formats as it’s my daughter’s vintage.

Fichet’s Chevalières is also terrific, in his chiseled, tensile style.

There are plenty of others but those spring to mind.
