---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 153087
topic_slug: how-many-wines-a-day
topic_title: "How many wines a day?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/how-many-wines-a-day/153087
post_id: 3819510
post_number: 27
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/how-many-wines-a-day/153087/27
date: "2019-07-01"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Shockingly, having tasted around 6,000 wines in my first year at The Wine Advocate, I would need an option for >16 on average. There are very few days when I don’t taste. William — it must be hard to do that. I would imagine that wine must often feel like work to you. When I was an editor at The…"
word_count: 198
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:54+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Shockingly, having tasted around 6,000 wines in my first year at The Wine Advocate, I would need an option for >16 on average. There are very few days when I don’t taste. William — it must be hard to do that. I would imagine that wine must often feel like work to you. When I was an editor at The…

Amazingly, it doesn’t generally have that effect on me; I think because, while I taste a lot, I very rarely do the kind of long, centralized tastings that many journalists, by force of circumstances, are obliged to do. A big day for me is visiting five domaines in Burgundy, where I might taste 50 or so wines between 9 am and 6 pm. Which is quite different from sitting in an office in Paso and tasting 150+ reds, and much less exhausting.

But it does mean that my desire to drink young high-appellation red and white Burgundy is effectively zero, since I’m so often exposed to it—which is great for protecting the bottles aging in my cellar. After tasting a lot, I generally reach for an older wine at home. And if I want a young, refreshing wine I gravitate towards Champagne, Beaujolais, Savoie or Loire rather than the Côte d’Or.

We will typically open 1-2 bottles for a quiet night and a rough overage of 1.5-2 bottles per head for a dinner with friends. But being in the business clearly skews that number higher than it would otherwise be.
