---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 153096
topic_slug: books
topic_title: "books ?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/books/153096
post_id: 2956320
post_number: 74
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/books/153096/74
date: "2020-08-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "FWIW, I tried to start the Hitler’s Vineyard’s book last night and just wasn’t digging the writing style. It just came across as heavy, boring. I sent it back to Amazon today. Not a recommend from me. Dr. Kelley did imply it was written more like a dissertation (not to mention translated from…"
word_count: 171
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> FWIW, I tried to start the Hitler’s Vineyard’s book last night and just wasn’t digging the writing style. It just came across as heavy, boring. I sent it back to Amazon today. Not a recommend from me. Dr. Kelley did imply it was written more like a dissertation (not to mention translated from…

Just saw this… *Hitler’s Vineyards* is definitely more informative than it is entertaining, like most contemporary academic writing. But to me, it was gripping to learn the full extent of collaboration and the complex mechanisms by which it occurred. The legacy of this period is still with us in some respects in the French wine world of today (e.g. the CIVC, BIVB which today we think of as trade and press organizations were set up to essentially facilitate collective bargaining about wine exports to the Third Reich; the premiers crus were introduced as a way to prevent regional wines in the Côte d’Or being sold as table wine to the Wehrmacht, etc etc). It also explains some local antipathies one encounters in the region to this day. The *Wine and War* book, while readable, paints a rather more idealized picture; and it was more as a corrective to the latter that I recommended *Hitler’s Vineyards* , as opposed to something one might enjoy on the beach or whatever.
