---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 153969
topic_slug: 2008-champagne-question
topic_title: "2008 champagne question"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2008-champagne-question/153969
post_id: 2694079
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2008-champagne-question/153969/19
date: "2019-08-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Are there stylistic differences between them as a general matter (across vintages)?"
word_count: 351
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:54+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Are there stylistic differences between them as a general matter (across vintages)?

Very big stylistic differences.

Clos des Goisses is a wine produced in finite quantities from a specific place - a steep, south-facing vineyard in Mareuil-sur-Ay which typically produces the ripest grapes in the region. Production is typically around 20,000 bottles, but as low as 5,000 for the 2010 vintage. It is a very complete, age worthy Champagne, indeed, a strong case could be made for it being the most age worthy wine in Champagne. Since Charles Philipponnat took over the direction of the estate in 1999, the soils have been worked and great attention been paid in the vines. The wine doesn’t see malolactic and dosage is on the low side. In short, one of Champagne’s most exciting and unique wines and one that will appeal to lovers of great Burgundy in its spirit. The 1952 Clos des Goisses might be the best mature Champagne I have ever tasted.

Pol Roger’s Winston Churchill is rich, lavish and powerful, the style supposedly reflecting Churchill’s taste in Champagne. It ages very well in my experience but is also fun to drink in its youth. To my palate, it’s among the finest ‘tête de cuvée’ bottlings produced by the important houses today, and I appreciate its somewhat old fashioned aesthetic.

Production statistics have never been disclosed for Dom Pérignon, but estimates range between 5 and 8.5 million bottles, so an order of magnitude more than either of the other two. The winemaking style is quite reductive (perhaps partly a function of big fermentation tanks), resulting in quite a smoky, toasty signature which is hard to mistake once you are habituated to it. It is a very nice luxury cuvée and readily available all over the world. Looking back at its history, until the late-50s/early-60s it was effectively just a special label for the Moët vintage; the 1960s were really the glory days, and back then it was vinified in wood AFAIK; beginning in the early 80s, production really started to ramp up and the wine took on its more reductive profile.
