---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 154743
topic_slug: beaujolais-where-have-you-been-my-whole-life
topic_title: "Beaujolais, where have you been my whole life?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/beaujolais-where-have-you-been-my-whole-life/154743
post_id: 2714763
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/beaujolais-where-have-you-been-my-whole-life/154743/19
date: "2019-09-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Your next Beaujolais epiphanies could be with 20-30 year old bottles. That would take this whole thing to another level. Too true! I am planning to write an article on aged Beaujolais, and going into some depth on Beaujolais’ 20th-century history, looking at the evolution of viticulture,…"
word_count: 220
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:53+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Your next Beaujolais epiphanies could be with 20-30 year old bottles. That would take this whole thing to another level. Too true! I am planning to write an article on aged Beaujolais, and going into some depth on Beaujolais’ 20th-century history, looking at the evolution of viticulture,…

I do sometimes think it’s a pity that so many of the region’s aspirational producers tend to head in that direction. More aspiration to produce twenty-year Beaujolais would be nice, too—(though unfortunately in practice that would likely lead to more aggressive extraction and oak, rather than simply concentrated, balanced and unforced wines). The region is certainly big enough to encompass multiple visions and aesthetics.

But more and more of the natural producers are using microscopes and aspiring to make wines that are not merely vinified without sulfites, but clean and stable, too. So that’s a positive trend, and for the top fifty or so producers in the region, I would say the future is very bight. For the remaining 2,000+, bulk wine prices are flatlining, and I think existence is highly precarious. So the region is more and more bifurcated in that respect.

In any case, what might be called the “intellectual history” of the natural wine movement is quite interesting, beginning with Chauvet and his influence over Lapierre, and then spreading throughout the Beaujolais, and it emerged in a very different context from that offered by the region today. On the flight over to France, I read an interesting book by Sébastien Lapaque, *Chez Marcel Lapierre* , which any Francophone Beaujolais fans might enjoy.
