---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 156358
topic_slug: dinner-w-04-bollinger-ga-15-pycm-batard-7-grand-cru-red-burgs-05-rieussec
topic_title: "Dinner w/ 04` Bollinger GA, 15` PYCM Batard,7 Grand Cru red Burgs, 05` Rieussec"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/dinner-w-04-bollinger-ga-15-pycm-batard-7-grand-cru-red-burgs-05-rieussec/156358
post_id: 2767744
post_number: 5
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/dinner-w-04-bollinger-ga-15-pycm-batard-7-grand-cru-red-burgs-05-rieussec/156358/5
date: "2019-12-07"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Great notes Blake! Has Girardin dialed down his oak use in the last 15 -20 years (last time I checked in on his wine)? Thanks Barry. I don’t know about any change in oak influence, but I am finding both whites and reds from older and more recent vintages to be closer to being in ideal balance. My…"
word_count: 255
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:53+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Great notes Blake! Has Girardin dialed down his oak use in the last 15 -20 years (last time I checked in on his wine)? Thanks Barry. I don’t know about any change in oak influence, but I am finding both whites and reds from older and more recent vintages to be closer to being in ideal balance. My…

Huge changes! This was my blurb in the last TWA vintage report:

“Vincent Girardin debuted as a winemaker in 1982, creating his négociant maison in 1990 with his family domaine holdings at its core, distinguished by insisting on purchasing grapes as opposed to must or finished wines. When Girardin’s expanding holdings became too much to handle, Eric Germain—brother of Jean-François Germain, who presides over Meursault reference-point Domaine Henri Germain—was brought in to supervise winemaking in 2002. Germain, as he puts it, harbored the ambition “to make not merely good wine but instead great wine,” and also wines that could age. He presided over a wholesale change in winemaking practices that has continued to progress since the maison’s purchase by the Compagnie des Vins d’Autrefois in 2011. Wines that were once oaky and somewhat exaggerated are now deep, precise and beautifully differentiated by site. There’s more work in the vineyards—fully 21 hectares of which are now owned—which are increasingly being converted to biodynamic farming. Élevage is longer, with the last of these 2017s set to be bottled in April 2019. And Germain uses much less new oak and little bâtonnage. This is now a very serious source for high quality white Burgundy, and the reflex to dismiss this producer as “commercial” is entirely misplaced. I found much to admire in this collection of 2017s, and warmly recommend them to readers. What’s more, under Germain’s able and punctilious direction, the future is very bright indeed.”
