---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 156928
topic_slug: allemand-bretty
topic_title: "Allemand Bretty?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/allemand-bretty/156928
post_id: 2777689
post_number: 52
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/allemand-bretty/156928/52
date: "2019-12-23"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I too love the conversation here - and the info provided by Adam and Mike is helpful indeed. My points above have more to do with tasters’ ‘perceptions’ rather than ‘facts’. Brett is one of those situations where one can ‘prove’ that it’s in a wine via science, but many will still insist it’s not…"
word_count: 201
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:52+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I too love the conversation here - and the info provided by Adam and Mike is helpful indeed. My points above have more to do with tasters’ ‘perceptions’ rather than ‘facts’. Brett is one of those situations where one can ‘prove’ that it’s in a wine via science, but many will still insist it’s not…

I don’t think this is quite so complicated. To my palate at least, Allemand and Pégaü are really in different categories as far as brettanomyces is concerned. I would rank Allemand as one of the purest expressions of Syrah in the Northern Rhône. As Eric observes, the presence of some brettanomyces cells does not necessarily make for a bretty wine. The key issue for avoiding brett bloom in bottle, at least as I understand it, is the absence of any kind of available sugars; and that’s more likely with very ripe Grenache than with lower-octane Syrah in Cornas. 2003 Pégaü has around 3 grams RS as I recall, so not surprising that that could go badly wrong in the right/wrong conditions. People who have run numbers on Thierry’s wines might be able to contradict me, but I would be surprised if any of his wines had that much residual sugar. But it would be interesting to have some concrete numbers on specific vintages and cuvées from folks who have tested the wines, as opposed to hypotheticals, or simply showing that there are a few brettanomyces cells present in the wines, without any reference to their byproducts.
