---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 157303
topic_slug: high-alcohol-wines-and-aging
topic_title: "High alcohol wines and aging"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/high-alcohol-wines-and-aging/157303
post_id: 2809265
post_number: 131
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/high-alcohol-wines-and-aging/157303/131
date: "2020-02-04"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Fascinating data. Thank you for this. It certainly puts things in perspective Now if only someone can come up with data for the 1947 Cheval Blanc"
word_count: 324
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:30+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Fascinating data. Thank you for this. It certainly puts things in perspective Now if only someone can come up with data for the 1947 Cheval Blanc

The number that is cited is 14.4%, but it would be interesting to see a full analysis, including TA, pH, VA and RS. If I can persuade someone to open a bottle and sacrifice 20 ml in the name of science, I’ll report back. It would be interesting to see the numbers on some of the other headier post-War Pomerols and Saint-Emilions from vintages such as '45, '47 and '50, too, to see where the 1947 Cheval Blanc fits in. I have some inter-War and post-War Gazin, Nouvelle Eglise (which became La Violette), Guillot, Rouget and VCC in my cellar in France and will try to run some numbers, but I am not in a hurry to open all my bottles to tell the truth. But I am guessing that, if 14.4% is indeed accurate for the '47 Cheval, it’s an outlier, even in that context.

Again, to reiterate, my point is not to say that higher-alcohol wines cannot age, but rather to show that many of the supposedly higher-alcohol wines that have aged very well and which are frequently cited as such are in fact, comparatively low alcohol.

But with wines such as 1982 Mouton and 1961 Palmer, it is very interesting to see that rich, ripe and sumptuous textures and flavors can or could be attained at less than 12% alcohol in the Médoc. And the lower abv may well account for how easy it is to drink copious quantities of such wines without any deleterious consequences the following morning!

It is also worth noting, looking at the analyses above, that on paper, 2000 Margaux and 2003 Haut-Brion are very similar, yet they are obviously very different wines (I am wondering if the Haut-Brion saw an acid addition, as many wines did in 2003?). So it also bears reiterating that there is a lot more to wine than the numbers.
