---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 157303
topic_slug: high-alcohol-wines-and-aging
topic_title: "High alcohol wines and aging"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/high-alcohol-wines-and-aging/157303
post_id: 2830784
post_number: 162
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/high-alcohol-wines-and-aging/157303/162
date: "2020-03-06"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "That 1955 number seems weird to me. 3.81 pH typically points to 13.5% in Bordeaux and 15% in Napa. It seems head scratching to me that somehow Ducru [you mean La Mission] picked at 20.5 Brix and got that pH. Impossible actually. I wonder if that bottle was low fill when you opened it and if perhaps…"
word_count: 324
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:30+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> That 1955 number seems weird to me. 3.81 pH typically points to 13.5% in Bordeaux and 15% in Napa. It seems head scratching to me that somehow Ducru [you mean La Mission] picked at 20.5 Brix and got that pH. Impossible actually. I wonder if that bottle was low fill when you opened it and if perhaps…

Well, La Mission and Haut Brion both typically producer higher-pH wines because of where they are located, in the warm suburbs of Bordeaux, where nighttime temperatures are much warmer than in the Médoc. And then you have to factor in the impact of >2/3 years élevage in barrel in a humid cellar on alcohol levels. I do not find it implausible: so many things were done differently in terms of vine genetics, viticulture, and winemaking back then that extrapolating between today’s wine chemistry and that of the 1950s and before makes little sense. Instead, the numbers are interesting as an example of what once was possible and how different the wines of today are from those of yesteryear, even though they may come from the same vineyard and carry the same label.

These numbers came from a friend, so I don’t know what the level was like, but I am utterly unconvinced that even a low fill bottle is going to lose a meaningful percentage of alcohol by transpiration though a cork under normal cellar conditions. It has sometimes been claimed that wines do loose alcohol in bottle, but no one has ever been able to explain how. Nevertheless, I’m asking a winemaker friend who has a big wine library to run numbers on >20-year-old wines for which he has very accurate data on alcohol at bottling just to see. I’ll report back.

As for pH 3…75-3.85 being some sort of ideal window for Bordeaux and Napa, I’m not convinced either. That’s a higher pH than all the great Bordeaux cited in this thread, excepting only the La Mission '55. In fact, I’d argue that the deliberate pursuit of that pH range, which was built into Bordelais oenology by Ribéreau‐Gayon, is one of the reasons so much contemporary Bordeaux tastes flat and soupy after a decade of bottle age.
