---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 157303
topic_slug: high-alcohol-wines-and-aging
topic_title: "High alcohol wines and aging"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/high-alcohol-wines-and-aging/157303
post_id: 2784624
post_number: 22
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/high-alcohol-wines-and-aging/157303/22
date: "2020-01-04"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "But if C St. Jean is the most alcoholic wine you’ve ever had, that just means you need to try more wine."
word_count: 407
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:30+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> But if C St. Jean is the most alcoholic wine you’ve ever had, that just means you need to try more wine.

I haven’t talked with Vincent Morel for the better part of a year, and I haven’t discussed the 2016 vintage with him, but Clos Saint-Jean wines are really quite high alcohol, and as I recall the 2010 Sanctus Sanctorum was 16.7% for example, with 14.5% on the label. So a wine labeled as 16% might conceivably (and entirely legally) be 16-and-some-change; and in my experience this is where most very high octane wines, whether from the Southern Rhône, Napa, Paso, etc are situated when you run the analysis. Some producers are getting north of 17% systematically, but really not that many in the regions I am familiar with at least; and trying to ferment wines north of 17% is quite a high wire act which in itself imposes certain inconveniences. So I’m not convinced it would be that easy for Shay to find a wine that is hugely more alcoholic than this one.

As an aside, that’s especially true if you consider perception: after all, this CSJ was around 30% more alcoholic than a Bordeaux as 12.5%, whereas a 17% alcohol wine will less than 7 % more alcoholic than Shay’s CSJ—if it was labelled accurately at 16%. That certainly makes a big difference to how we physically experience alcohol, and my personal experience has been that the palate follows a similar rule: a wine at 16.3% tastes very similar to a wine at 17.3%; whereas the difference between a wine at 12.5 % and 13.5% is a bit more obvious; but of course other tasters may—and in fact certainly will—experience things very differently.

As far as aging is concerned, speaking generally here, the issue seems to be not so much the alcohol, as the kind of fruit often required to produce wines with such high alcohols—which can be deficient in acidity, high in pH, and have field-oxidized tannins: none of which are conducive to graceful aging. These grapes are not so much physiologically mature as physiologically dead, and wines like these tend to be very fleshy and dramatic young, and then sort of implode, losing texture and palate presence, and often sort of thinned out by the alcohol. They taste quite different in this respect to, for example, a decrepit Burgundy, where is is more likely to be the acidity that takes over as the wine dies.
