---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 157604
topic_slug: white-burgundy-under-diam
topic_title: "White Burgundy under DIAM"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/white-burgundy-under-diam/157604
post_id: 2793441
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/white-burgundy-under-diam/157604/13
date: "2020-01-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William, Just responding to some comments above, have you ever noticed a taste from a DIAM cork? David Ramey is a dedicated DIAM user in California. I asked him about it, and he was definitive with his “no” response."
word_count: 256
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:52+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William, Just responding to some comments above, have you ever noticed a taste from a DIAM cork? David Ramey is a dedicated DIAM user in California. I asked him about it, and he was definitive with his “no” response.

David is reliably definitive!

But I would say that I certainly notice when producers start bottling under DIAM without sufficiently adjusting their élevage practices, esp. sulfur levels. And the results can be disastrous. DIAM is clearly a much more reductive closure than a lot of poorer-quality cork.

(Indeed, while we’re on the subject, there is one producer who decided to bottle all their half bottles of 2018, produced exclusively for tastings, under DIAM, while all the 750s will be under natural cork - the result was a set of wines that tasted tighter and more reductive than the domaine’s 2017s, whereas they assured me they were actually much fatter than the 2017s—talk about a way to waste an hour-and-a-half of my life.)

I have also discussed the DIAM issue with some of the producers I find most interesting in the region, such as Olivier Lamy, who have done a variety of blind tastings to test the outcomes. Their view tends to be that DIAMs are a lot better than many corks, but not as good as the very best corks—natural corks tending to win both best and worst titles in blind tastings, whereas DIAMs are very consistent. But I have never participated in such tasting myself. I am just waiting for an invitation.

Personally, if I made white wine in Burgundy, and I hope that one day I will get to try my hand at it, I would take the very best long, dense, mirror-face corks from Sagrera.
