---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 157663
topic_slug: top-three-white-burgundy-producers-in-your-cellar
topic_title: "Top three white Burgundy producers in your cellar"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/top-three-white-burgundy-producers-in-your-cellar/157663
post_id: 2793608
post_number: 11
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/top-three-white-burgundy-producers-in-your-cellar/157663/11
date: "2020-01-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Have been hearing a lot about Bernard Moreau as of late but haven’t gotten around to trying any of the wines. Are there any bottlings in particular that you think are a good introduction to the house style?"
word_count: 184
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:52+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Have been hearing a lot about Bernard Moreau as of late but haven’t gotten around to trying any of the wines. Are there any bottlings in particular that you think are a good introduction to the house style?

The style is incisive, concentrated and elegantly textural. There’s an *I’ll Drink To That* podcast with Alex Moreau if you want to take a deep dive. My latest blurb accompanying my TWA tasting notes is as follows:

“What are the rudiments of this 14-hectare estate’s success? As I wrote last year, the domaine represents a loose division of labor between two brothers: Benoit, who concerns himself with the vineyards, and Alex, who oversees the cellar. In the vineyard, they use only organic fertilizers and no pesticides. In the cellar, Alex Moreau appreciates long fermentations and extended sur lie élevage without stirring, the wines finishing their maturation in stainless steel where they generally see a light fining. New oak, largely from François Frères, is judiciously chosen. Beautifully balanced and differentiated by site, these are some of the most compelling white Burgundies being made today, and I once again warmly recommend them to readers.”

My money is where my mouth is, as Moreau is my largest holding in white Burgundy.

Top three by volume in my cellar are Moreau, Ramonet and Raveneau.
