---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 157848
topic_slug: need-help-finding-the-right-volnay
topic_title: "Need help finding the right Volnay."
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/need-help-finding-the-right-volnay/157848
post_id: 2797343
post_number: 9
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/need-help-finding-the-right-volnay/157848/9
date: "2020-01-22"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 232
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:52+00:00"
---

You should definitely look at the Jean-Marc Bouley wines, he is one of the finest viticulturists in the village, and his 2017s are beautiful - I tried them from bottle a few months ago. Consider his Beaune Reversées as a wine that drinks well younger.

Also worth mentioning is Thierry Glantenay, a softly-spoken and unassuming guy who is producing some terrific wines, from his Volnay Vieilles Vignes to his Clos des Chênes. These wines are likely less expensive than many of those mentioned in this thread, but also qualitatively equal to many of them, and the supple, satiny style is very seductive.

Domaine Joseph Voillot is also a very fine domaine in Volnay, there’s a recent and approbatory thread about them to be unearthed that I won’t duplicate here.

Nicolas Rossignol, once the enfant terrible of the Côte de Beaune is now making delicious and elegant wines with much less new oak than a decade ago, worth consideration.

But finding a domaine to compare with Lafarge’s style is not easy. The rudiments are destemming, quite long cuvaison, long élevage with racking in mostly old—and I mean really quite old in some cases—barrels. In some ways, one could compare with the Michel Gaunoux wines in Pommard, but those have a different patina. The solution might just be to look for some more Lafarge, perhaps from other appellations.
