---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 158060
topic_slug: value-of-knowing-the-date-of-disgorgement
topic_title: "Value of knowing the date of disgorgement?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/value-of-knowing-the-date-of-disgorgement/158060
post_id: 2805530
post_number: 11
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/value-of-knowing-the-date-of-disgorgement/158060/11
date: "2020-01-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 228
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:51+00:00"
---

For NV wines, the date of disgorgement is much more useful for the knowledgeable consumers if you also know the date of triage (i.e. bottling). From that, you can infer the base vintage, as well as how long the wine spent on the lees in bottle. The disgorgement date on its own only gives you some sense of how tightly-wound the wine is likely to be (if you know how the particular bottling tends to behave), as well as giving you a means to match published reviews with wines.

That said, there are a lot of wines in the world where there are different bottlings. Among the regions I review, that is quite common in Chablis and Beaujolais. In 2018 in Chablis, there was so much wine that some cuvées were bottled in three or more runs: the first in February after the vintage! Beyond the question of different bottling dates, sometimes a cuvée will be filtered for some markets and not for others. Some importers might also select a different blend from the components available for a particular cuvée. And so on. And this information is never given on the label. So the fixation on disgorgement dates for Champagne in some quarters has sometimes struck me as just a touch disingenuous—or perhaps just naive—as the same standards are not applied to other regions.
