---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 158254
topic_slug: 2018-dauvissat
topic_title: "2018 Dauvissat"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2018-dauvissat/158254
post_id: 2816096
post_number: 10
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2018-dauvissat/158254/10
date: "2020-02-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "After some nicely premoxed Dauvissat”s, I believe in 2008 vintage, and hearing that they are in some degree of denial, and with the Grand Crus now in our marketplace at over $200 per bottle, I am no longer a buyer. Of course, if you drink them early, no problem…but then, are they worth the premium?…"
word_count: 226
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:51+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> After some nicely premoxed Dauvissat”s, I believe in 2008 vintage, and hearing that they are in some degree of denial, and with the Grand Crus now in our marketplace at over $200 per bottle, I am no longer a buyer. Of course, if you drink them early, no problem…but then, are they worth the premium?…

It’s a difficult one, and of course it’s a conundrum that applies at many estates. I did observe that the 2018s have been bottled with really nice, dense, unbleached corks from Trescases, which should stack the decks somewhat more in their favor. But premox at Dauvissat is an interesting one, in that I never had an oxidized bottle in France, where I drink a lot of the wines—including many recent bottles of 2008, all pristine. By contrast, in the UK and US I have had quite a few oxidized bottles from that vintage. Even if wines tend to show better “sur place” in general, that seems to be especially acute in Dauvissat’s case. This has sometimes made me wonder if the issue is malolactic instability (exacerbated by transport) rather than classic premox. But it’s hard to say. Certainly, in terms of winemaking practices, they do everything right, so if there is a weak link there, it would have to be at the bottling line or an issue with closures.

In so far as there’s a solution for you, it might be to buy more Petit Chablis and Chablis, and pass on the higher appellations which really do need time. Frankly, I would prefer to drink Dauvissat’s Petit Chablis than the majority of producers’ grand cru bottlings in any case.
