---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 159386
topic_slug: tn-2018-daniel-bouland-morgon-les-delys-too-ripe
topic_title: "TN:  2018 Daniel Bouland Morgon Les Délys - Too Ripe"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-daniel-bouland-morgon-les-delys-too-ripe/159386
post_id: 2945507
post_number: 77
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-daniel-bouland-morgon-les-delys-too-ripe/159386/77
date: "2020-07-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "VV Sable for sure! Pace Otto, I think you can still get a good sense of the old-vine concentration and classic winemaking that distinguished Daniel’s wines even in the warmer vintage. Pair it with some rare grilled beef, perhaps. I really hope that is the case. Although Bouland makes wonderful…"
word_count: 238
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> VV Sable for sure! Pace Otto, I think you can still get a good sense of the old-vine concentration and classic winemaking that distinguished Daniel’s wines even in the warmer vintage. Pair it with some rare grilled beef, perhaps. I really hope that is the case. Although Bouland makes wonderful…

2015s across the board have certainly rarely aged with grace (I’ve tasted some outright oxidized '15s recently, from producers that I guess are doing thermovinifcation), though I do have some in my cellar for the long haul that I’m pleased with. I think 2018s as a set are better balanced than that: partly because producers learnt the lessons of 2015; and partly because the very high yields buffered ripening. Personally, I very much share you preferences for the more fragrant, racy expressions of Gamay that nod to Pinot rather than Grenache. But, these warmer vintages are part of the region’s authentic voice, too, and I do find they have interesting things to say—beyond any professional imperative to be “fair” to different styles, which can be taken too far. This is the most southern region of greater Burgundy, after all, and with its terra-cotta roofs, head-trained vines, granitic soils, distinctive flora and different patois it makes sense that it should nod to the Rhône as well as the Côte d’Or in the style of its wines. And some of those ripe vintages of yesteryear—1929, 1937, 1945, 1947—have aged so brilliantly that I’m convinced that ripe Gamay has the potential to do amazing things. Whether much of the region’s winemaking is at a level where repeating the successes of those years is a possibility is another question, of course.
