---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 159386
topic_slug: tn-2018-daniel-bouland-morgon-les-delys-too-ripe
topic_title: "TN:  2018 Daniel Bouland Morgon Les Délys - Too Ripe"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-daniel-bouland-morgon-les-delys-too-ripe/159386
post_id: 2946352
post_number: 83
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-daniel-bouland-morgon-les-delys-too-ripe/159386/83
date: "2020-07-30"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "2015s across the board have certainly rarely aged with grace (I’ve tasted some outright oxidized '15s recently…) I’ve been trying to drink my handful of remaining '15s, just to get rid of them, and agree that many are awful and borderline undrinkable. I did enjoy my '15 Foillards immensely, though,…"
word_count: 327
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> 2015s across the board have certainly rarely aged with grace (I’ve tasted some outright oxidized '15s recently…) I’ve been trying to drink my handful of remaining '15s, just to get rid of them, and agree that many are awful and borderline undrinkable. I did enjoy my '15 Foillards immensely, though,…

Yeah, I think we do write off these wines prematurely in some cases, and perhaps partly because we have such strongly typified expectations about how the wines ought to taste, every year. I’m guilty of this myself. I am delighted to own e.g. both the 2015 **and** 2016 Clape Cornas, and both the 2015 **and** 2016 La Tâche; and I thoroughly embrace the different vintage signatures in the context of the site- and producer-signatures. So why do I own Foillard’s 2016 but not any of their 2015? And is that really fair to how these wines will evolve over time? FWIW, my perception when I tasted it in Beaune three months ago was that Foillard’s 2018 is better balanced than the 2015 was, and I think that is supported, in so far as numbers mean anything, by the analysis. But clearly, nor is it the crunchy, perfumed 2016 vintage chez Foillard, and nor could it be.

Having said that, I do not really want to be perceived as cheerleading for the 2018 or still less the 2015 vintage in the Beaujolais. The 2018s I described in TWA as something of a gateway vintage, likely to appeal to new consumers more than long-time Beaujolais followers, and one that nodded more to Grenache than to Pinot. And I’ve been quite critical about the 2015s, warning our subscribers that they are in many cases not evolving with grace. All I’m arguing for here is a little balance, because I think it’s a little limiting to impose some sort of ideal “type” of vintage on a region that doesn’t make space for different styles in different kinds of years. But I would prefer to leave any kind of active advocacy for the merits of 2015 and 2018 as a whole (as opposed to some specific wines produced in those years) to the writers who have really celebrated those years in print!
