---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 159422
topic_slug: hacks-for-evaluating-current-release-wine
topic_title: "Hacks for evaluating current release wine"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/hacks-for-evaluating-current-release-wine/159422
post_id: 2847487
post_number: 18
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/hacks-for-evaluating-current-release-wine/159422/18
date: "2020-03-26"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 288
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:51+00:00"
---

Of course, balance is to some extent in the eye of the beholder, but that has to be the single most important factor for extended aging.

The other point is not to underestimate recently bottled wines that are tightly wound and a bit shy. I remember tasting some of Olivier Lamy’s wines from barrel as a student and thinking that they were a bit timid and lacking a bit of stuffing: those same vintages today are singing, and I am fortunate that I have been able to purchase some subsequently to remedy my former mistake. I now regard the qualities I found hard to read in Lamy’s wines as a student as positive attributes that I actively seek out in young white Burgundies built for the cellar.

A concomitant point is that demonstrative, immediate and front-loaded wines, especially if they are all about sweet, sun-kissed fruit, can very quickly crash and burn in a few years. I’m thinking of a lot of recent Southern Rhône wines, many 2015 Beaujolais, plenty of California Cabernet and Pinot Noir.

At least in the context of classic French wine regions, it’s clearly a mistake to think that wines need to taste actively nasty when they’re young; but equally, the notion that great wines have to be great to drink immediately doesn’t convince me. If coarse, mouth-puckering tannins are undesirable, a little structural asperity is no bad thing in a wine that will gain in complexity over the course of 50 years; nor is a firm spine of acidity. I would be much more wary of fat, unctuous, sweet fruit underpinned by no discernible structure than I would a bit of grip and cut.
