---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 159784
topic_slug: tn-2017-beau-rivage-chenin-blanc-outstanding-qpr-a-william-kelley-winery
topic_title: "TN:  2017 Beau Rivage Chenin Blanc - Outstanding QPR [a William Kelley winery]"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2017-beau-rivage-chenin-blanc-outstanding-qpr-a-william-kelley-winery/159784
post_id: 2857062
post_number: 10
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2017-beau-rivage-chenin-blanc-outstanding-qpr-a-william-kelley-winery/159784/10
date: "2020-04-05"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Wonder what the 2018 brings?"
word_count: 329
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:51+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Wonder what the 2018 brings?

2018 will be released soon! The harvest was quite different, in that in late August sugar accumulation just sort of stopped, with the grapes hanging on the vines and not much happening. We ended up picking around September 10th, about two weeks later than in 2017; yet the abv is even lower than '17. '17 we labelled at 12.1 but it’s actually 11.9, which just felt like too much of a statement for a first release. 2018 came in at 11.4, and it’s a bit finer-boned; but it’s also a bit more floral and aromatic. I was a bit anxious that we might have picked a bit too early, but it’s opening up faster than the 2017 and some of our importers have quite a strong preference for 2018. I’m personally waiting to see and think they are different but more or less evenly matched. Winemaking was pretty much the same, but we bottled the 2018 under DIAM. It will be interesting to see how that impacts the aromatic profile: not in terms of reduction, as I think we good that right, but rather because the (painfully expensive) Amorim ndtech corks we used in 2017 seemed to impart quite a bit of lactones to the wine (we sometimes forget that cork, too, is a kind of oak). Our Norwegian importer was actually saying that some of her clients found the wine a bit oaky, and since all the wood we use is used several times (and some are demi muids), I am wondering if what they are picking up are cork extractives (of course, consumers in export markets may also be more predisposed to identify oak aromas in California wines than in wines from other regions).

Thanks, as ever, for your support! Reading nice comments about the wine is really one of the most gratifying things about making it, so I can’t tell you how much it’s appreciated.
