---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 160002
topic_slug: tn-2012-ramonet-chassagne-montrachet-1er-clos-de-la-boudriotte
topic_title: "TN: 2012 Ramonet Chassagne Montrachet 1er Clos de la Boudriotte"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2012-ramonet-chassagne-montrachet-1er-clos-de-la-boudriotte/160002
post_id: 2864078
post_number: 29
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2012-ramonet-chassagne-montrachet-1er-clos-de-la-boudriotte/160002/29
date: "2020-04-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Noel and JC are same wine, I believe after 13 or 14 all are JC Ramonet. Hopefully William Kelley will chime in. There should just be a “Questions for William Kelley” thread, frankly."
word_count: 326
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:51+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Noel and JC are same wine, I believe after 13 or 14 all are JC Ramonet. Hopefully William Kelley will chime in. There should just be a “Questions for William Kelley” thread, frankly.

2013 was the last vintage of the SCE Domaine Ramonet label (itself proceeded by a number of different labels, some of which were used simultaneously as far as I can tell). Thereafter, Noël wanted to take a step back from running the domaine, so the holdings were split between him and his younger brother Jean-Claude. Noël farms his half, and sells the resulting grapes—via an intermediary, just to add another layer of complexity—to Jean-Claude. Now all the wines are labelled Jean-Claude Ramonet, with the words “élevé et mis en bouteille par J-C Ramonet” in smaller text below. And Jean-Claude has also taken on more parcels: some purchased, some in fermage such as the Clos du Cailleret (which Ficofi bought from Girardin), and a cuvée of Mâcon-Péronne which I guess is likely bought fruit from Jean-Claude’s ex-wife who directs Domaine de la Tour Penet in Mâcon-Péronne. This arrangement seems to suit everyone so I guess it will carry on for a while.

As for the Boudriotte and Clos de la Boudriotte red, these are indeed two different bottlings from two different parcels! The Clos de la Boudriotte was one of the early purchases of Pierre Ramonet and has a special place in the family’s heart (que joked about “Ramonet-Conti”) much like the Ruchottes in white. As others have mentioned, their reds can still amazing values and I look out for old vintages. Both 1971 Clos Saint-Jean and 1971 Clos de la Boudriotte were great last year, with the Clos Saint-Jean the heartier, richer, more muscular wine and the Clos de la Boudriotte more elegant and finessed—and I think that’s quite typical of how they are generally distinguished. I think I have a 1961 Clos Saint-Jean downstairs, as well as 1961 Bâtard, both with the Ramonet-Prudhon label, so that should make for a fun “horizontal” at some point.
