---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 160644
topic_slug: domaine-guillemot-michel-burgundy
topic_title: "Domaine Guillemot-Michel, Burgundy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/domaine-guillemot-michel-burgundy/160644
post_id: 2882633
post_number: 18
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/domaine-guillemot-michel-burgundy/160644/18
date: "2020-05-04"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "unfortunately many wines of the appellation are “tainted” with very technical winemaking (selected yeast and so on )."
word_count: 210
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> unfortunately many wines of the appellation are “tainted” with very technical winemaking (selected yeast and so on ).

Gautier, great to read your analysis of muscaté selections of Chardonnay. Of course, as you say, it’s hard to know which of many factors account for the aromatic expression of a wine, but the presence of these selections is certainly one of many things that makes the Mâconnais special. It’s also poorly understood: a lot of tasters assume that those characteristics are coming from botrytis, I think. Sometimes their reflexive response is negative, as they aren’t used to such aromas in Chardonnay, but I have really come to appreciate those qualities, as well as the more extreme “levroutée” style.

Btw, some “muscaté” selections made it to California quite a long time ago as part of the family of Wente selections. Warren Dutton planted some in the 1960s in Rued Vineyard in the Russian River. So any “Rued clone” Chardonnays from California will display some of the aromatic qualities of the Muscaté selections in the Mâconnais. Rivers-Marie just started making a Rued Chardonnay that exemplifies that.

You are pulling your punches, because selected yeasts are really the least of the problem. Chemical farming, excess yields, machine harvesting, enzymatic clarification, acid/sugar adjustments, and aggressive filtration would all be higher on my list of problems than selected yeasts.
