---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161004
topic_slug: earn-your-stripes-nouvelle-vague-burgundians
topic_title: "Earn your stripes, nouvelle vague Burgundians."
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/earn-your-stripes-nouvelle-vague-burgundians/161004
post_id: 2891241
post_number: 15
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/earn-your-stripes-nouvelle-vague-burgundians/161004/15
date: "2020-05-15"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Is it me, or is finding good value in Burgundy akin to trying to break into a high security bank with laser detectors?"
word_count: 353
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Is it me, or is finding good value in Burgundy akin to trying to break into a high security bank with laser detectors?

I think the problem here is that people are still fixated on appellations. The mentality is very hard to escape. Even when a village wine is brilliant people will say it’s “premier cru quality”, and when a wine from the Mâconnais stuns, people say “it’s as good as Puligny”. In fact, while some sites are obviously better than others for growing grapes, and while some places such as Musigny and Montrachet do tend to produce truly special wines in the right hands, in my view these appellation hierarchies are strongly reinforced rather than merely revealed. But fixating on the hierarchy of appellations focusses demand on the highest-classified 1% of vineyard land, meaning prices for wines from those sites, no matter the quality, will always be high. In turn, it also imposes glass ceilings on so-called “lesser” appellations, dimming ambition and encouraging producers to aim for quantity rather than quality.

Yet the results from meticulous viticulture and winemaking, wherever it is applied, speak for themselves. Wines from producers such as Dureuil-Janthial are still affordable, and if you drink a glass of his 2017 Rully Meix Cadot Vieilles Vignes you would not know you are drinking a “lesser” appellation. The challenge is to abstract wines such as these from a discourse dominated by the concept of “value” (and the implication that they’re merely good for the price but that one can do better by paying more) and instead to recognize them as great wines in their own terms that happily happen to be keenly priced. My personal buying philosophy is all about the best producers and not at all about appellation: I buy a lot of Dureuil-Janthial, Guffens-Heynen, Bruno Lorenzon, Domaine de la Bongran in southern Burgundy; in the Côte de Beaune, I buy Coche-Dury, Bernard Moreau, Lamy, Lamy-Caillat. I have no interest in buying a “good Meursault for the price” from a producer whose farming and winemaking are not on the level of the region’s best but who happens to be blessed with a parcel of vines that boast a famous post code.
