---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161110
topic_slug: three-adjacent-parcels-of-meursault-perrieres-this-spring-updated
topic_title: "Three adjacent parcels of Meursault Perrières this Spring (updated!)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-adjacent-parcels-of-meursault-perrieres-this-spring-updated/161110
post_id: 2893831
post_number: 56
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-adjacent-parcels-of-meursault-perrieres-this-spring-updated/161110/56
date: "2020-05-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Oh my William, this is opening up the proverbial can of nematodes! You had better hope none of those Burgundian farmers have a shotgun handy when you start poking around taking pix of the vineyards. You are indeed a courageous fellow. I definitely also notice vast differences in vineyards just…"
word_count: 236
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Oh my William, this is opening up the proverbial can of nematodes! You had better hope none of those Burgundian farmers have a shotgun handy when you start poking around taking pix of the vineyards. You are indeed a courageous fellow. I definitely also notice vast differences in vineyards just…

Thanks for the kind words!

It is true that I hesitated to post for the reasons you give. But equally, what with the vineyards being in plain sight, I think it’s only a matter of time before these sorts of exchanges begin to happen. Of course, while trying to avoid giving gratuitous offense, or coming to hasty judgements, it’s hard not to draw contrasts at times. But the bigger point rather than “naming and shaming” was to try to connect our often rather abstract discussions of “terroir” with actual vines growing in a vineyard and the kind of grapes they produce.

It is an interesting moment in the region’s history, what with more and more producers training the vines higher and stopping hedging (e.g. in some or all appellations Olivier Lamy, JM Vincent, Dugat-Py, Duroché, Leroy [the original], Arnoux-Lachaux) or even experimenting with échalas (again Arnoux-Lachaux, Bizot, Nicolas Faure [the original], Chandon de Briailles, Trapet). I’m sure I missed some out. This has really exploded over the last couple of years, and very suddenly the drive down the Côte looks a lot different. So it is a very exciting time to be out in the vineyards in Burgundy, and that will be the emphasis of my contributions rather than an exposé of bad practice (though I am not going to make any special efforts to conceal that, either).
