---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161110
topic_slug: three-adjacent-parcels-of-meursault-perrieres-this-spring-updated
topic_title: "Three adjacent parcels of Meursault Perrières this Spring (updated!)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-adjacent-parcels-of-meursault-perrieres-this-spring-updated/161110
post_id: 2893628
post_number: 46
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-adjacent-parcels-of-meursault-perrieres-this-spring-updated/161110/46
date: "2020-05-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Great post William I agree with Bill that the yellow in Darviot-Perrin’s vines is a virus problem and as such may not be typical of other plots of his - but clearly worrying here. NB this point. People throwing stones at Darviot-Perrin may want to row back a little on the criticism. AFAIK, they’ve…"
word_count: 256
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Great post William I agree with Bill that the yellow in Darviot-Perrin’s vines is a virus problem and as such may not be typical of other plots of his - but clearly worrying here. NB this point. People throwing stones at Darviot-Perrin may want to row back a little on the criticism. AFAIK, they’ve…

Well, yes and no… It’s obviously a misfortune to suffer with virus, but the susceptibility of vines to virus is also influenced by how they are being farmed. And then there is always replanting as a last resort. The adjacent parcels belonging to Coche, Lafon and Bouchard are not healthy and well-maintained by accident. As for how they’ve been regarded, that’s precisely why it’s interesting to look at what the reality is in the vineyards, to put the reputation to the test. Incidentally, this is what their US importer has to say about how their vineyard work:
> It is an emphasis on the work in the vineyard which makes the difference at Darviot-Perrin. The vineyards are tended virtually organically which is just a small part of making fine Burgundy. The vital element is bringing healthy, ripe grapes to the presses and vats. Vinification is important, but cannot replace impeccable fruit from the vineyard.
As a journalist, I hear this sort of thing very regularly, so it is interesting to see how it holds up to scrutiny. To be clear, I am not singling out this estate for criticism: far from it, it is easy to find much worse practice in Burgundy, and it’s great that they are working the soils and not using herbicides. But equally, their Perrières parcel clearly needs intervention, and has for a while (witness Bill’s older photo), and it is a pity to see such dilapidated vineyards in such a celebrated (and expensive) appellation.
