---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161333
topic_slug: awesome-bourgogne-blanc
topic_title: "Awesome Bourgogne Blanc"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/awesome-bourgogne-blanc/161333
post_id: 2901055
post_number: 34
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/awesome-bourgogne-blanc/161333/34
date: "2020-05-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William, the German retailer who sell the wines writes on his homepage: Robert Parker (in fact William Kelly) did discover the wines from Lamy-Caillat and scored them high. They are now listed as “limited” and way more expensive. You see the influence? An advantage for consumers? This is an old…"
word_count: 214
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William, the German retailer who sell the wines writes on his homepage: Robert Parker (in fact William Kelly) did discover the wines from Lamy-Caillat and scored them high. They are now listed as “limited” and way more expensive. You see the influence? An advantage for consumers? This is an old…

I was never the denying the existence of the phenomenon whereby high scores result in increased prices. What I question is your contention that “Critics, wine writers and Domains are sitting in the same boat”. When I have given Lamy-Caillat high scores, it is because I loved the wines, not because I wanted to give merchants a reason to elevate prices. And if prices go up, doesn’t that mean that real consumers find the reviews credible and are interested to try the wines? If not, the wines would remain unsold at those higher prices. Sure, it’s a pity if the wines become harder to find or beyond some consumers’ means. But on the other hand, speaking more generally, it’s also a validation of producers’ hard work and an encouragement to do more. Sometimes it means a producer will get a new importer or two and open up new markets. Maybe then they can invest in better equipment, or purchase a new vineyard parcel, or do longer élevage, or (for example, in Champagne) keep more reserve wines. Or just worry less about debts to the bank. Even if we can all lament that desirable commodities—in wine as in everything—are expensive, there is also a positive side to the story.
