---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161692
topic_slug: terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down
topic_title: "Terroir vs winemaking -- Neal Martin lays the smack down"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down/161692
post_id: 2909913
post_number: 61
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down/161692/61
date: "2020-06-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Yes, but is this due to terroir or the way the vineyards are managed (higher yield, less attention to detail, etc)? There are of course quality differences between bourgogne level vineyards (eg compare a bourgogne vineyard on the flats below Gevrey to a bourgogne vineyard in St Aubin). I would be…"
word_count: 444
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Yes, but is this due to terroir or the way the vineyards are managed (higher yield, less attention to detail, etc)? There are of course quality differences between bourgogne level vineyards (eg compare a bourgogne vineyard on the flats below Gevrey to a bourgogne vineyard in St Aubin). I would be…

And here is the key point! Admittedly, comparatively few regional sites are really great spots for viticulture (and with Bourgogne La Chapître becoming part of Marsannay, as was just announced, we just lost one of them), but plenty of communal sites are. And when they are really pushed to the max in terms of farming and vine genetics, they can definitely sustain the same kind of vinification and élevage as grands crus. The differences between Leroy’s Chambolle Fremières, Chambolle 1er Cru Charmes and Musigny Grand Cru, which are farmed and vinified the same way, are very far from being the sort of flagrant differences in body, depth, concentration and alcoholic degree that you often find ascending the hierarchy at other producers. Not that the Musigny doesn’t dominate, blind or seen: but it does so because it has more nuance and layers, and even qualities that are quite hard to verbalize, as opposed to simply more body, color and tannin. So as I have said before, the **differences** between sites are real and fascinating, but at most addresses the hierarchy is as much **reinforced** , at every stage of the process, as it is revealed.

A lot of contributors to this thread have drawn on various analogies to describe winemaking vs “terroir”: playing musical instruments etc. While those can be quite intuitive, I think they don’t do justice to the complexity of the process, or the decisiveness of the link between the two, which is viticulture. The biggest advantage of the historically most celebrated terroirs is that for reasons of soil hydrology, exposition and mesoclimate, it is there that one can most reliably ripen grapes. With attentive viticulture, and in vintages where you can increasingly ripen grapes anywhere at all in Burgundy almost every year, many of those advantages can be effaced. What you are left with are the ineffable nuances of site-derived character, which are probably unsusceptible to any sort of rigorous analytical study, but no less demonstrable in the glass for all that. But the point is that these days dilute, weedy communal wines are that way because they were made that way, and there is no longer an excuse for that.

As an aside, it’s interesting to look into the history of the hierarchy of appellations - which is much more recent that the identification and naming of the lieux-dits. People might want to read up in particular on how the premiers crus came into being in 1943 and the reasons for it. Christophe Lucand’s book “Hitler’s Vineyards” is worth a look in this regard. In short, appellation is history, but it need not be destiny!
