---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161692
topic_slug: terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down
topic_title: "Terroir vs winemaking -- Neal Martin lays the smack down"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down/161692
post_id: 2911372
post_number: 111
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down/161692/111
date: "2020-06-12"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Take, for example, Lamy’s St. Aubin vineyards. He is doing exceptional work, and making outstanding wines (and it is not difficult to distinguish between his vineyards when tasting the wines, already a good sample of the existence of terroir). But no matter how good a St Aubin can get, it cannot…"
word_count: 236
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Take, for example, Lamy’s St. Aubin vineyards. He is doing exceptional work, and making outstanding wines (and it is not difficult to distinguish between his vineyards when tasting the wines, already a good sample of the existence of terroir). But no matter how good a St Aubin can get, it cannot…

Well, that is an interesting question, and I am not so sure that the answer is so simple. In fact, I would argue that the last few releases of his “Haut Densité” Derrière Chez Edouard are better, by any metric you choose to judge them by excepting perhaps alcoholic degree, than the majority of grand cru white Burgundies being made! I know they’re hard to find but do try to taste one if you haven’t.

This also suggests an interesting aside: there are a number of metrics by which wines are judged, and it is clear that contemporary tastes set less of a premium on mid-palate amplitude and richness than was the case thirty or one hundred years ago. Indeed, I often reflect that although Montrachet is still universally celebrated, no vineyard in Burgundy produces wines that are less in keeping with the fashion for lean, mean, reductive white Burgundy. Tastes change, but the appellation hierarchy seldom does. (How many people reading this thread have this year even considered buying a bottle of Château Grillet or Château Chalon, two of the five wines that, in the 1930s, Curnonsky declared the “greatest white wines of France”?) And if people really do privilege precision and delicacy over richness and power, as many would say they do, I think it’s perfectly legitimate to prefer Petits Monts to Richebourg or Pommard Les Vignots to Pommard Rugiens…
