---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161692
topic_slug: terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down
topic_title: "Terroir vs winemaking -- Neal Martin lays the smack down"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down/161692
post_id: 2913119
post_number: 157
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/terroir-vs-winemaking-neal-martin-lays-the-smack-down/161692/157
date: "2020-06-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I think a good and simple argument for terroir is you do not see Côte de beaune reds compete with Côte d’Or reds. I’m sure over time there has been examples however for the most part a Côte de beaune red just doesn’t get close. If they could there would be tons of them for $150-$1000 a bottle as…"
word_count: 239
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I think a good and simple argument for terroir is you do not see Côte de beaune reds compete with Côte d’Or reds. I’m sure over time there has been examples however for the most part a Côte de beaune red just doesn’t get close. If they could there would be tons of them for $150-$1000 a bottle as…

Without wishing to be gratuitously pedantic, the Côte de Beaune is, along with the Côte de Nuits, part of the Côte d’Or. And there are many producers in the Côte de Beaune whose red wines match the best of the Côte de Nuits in terms of depth, complexity and longevity: take Lafarge’s Volnay Clos des Chênes, d’Angerville’s Clos des Ducs, Michel Gaunoux’s Rugiens, Chandon de Briailles’ Ile de Vergelesses, Ramonet’s Clos de la Boudriotte and innumerable others.

If the Côte de Nuits has historically had an edge taken as a whole (and there have always been exceptions), then a lot of that is because of historical factors: the Côte de Beaune was less prosperous, and often planted higher yielding, less high quality selections of Pinot Noir; historically, the Côte de Beaune also harvested early, often arguably too early. I would suggest that, compounding these problems, critics have sometimes internalized perceived hierarchies too thoroughly, imposing glass ceilings on the wines of the Côte de Beaune.

But I can assure you that Christophe Roumier and the Seysses family of Domaine Dujac don’t sneer at the red wines of the Côte de Beaune, and nor should anyone. If your domaine is in Chambolle or Morey you don’t generally farm vineyard in Volnay because (a) it’s an hour by tractor and (b) you have good vineyards on your doorstep. There is no implicit critique.
