---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161807
topic_slug: keller-silliness
topic_title: "Keller Silliness"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/keller-silliness/161807
post_id: 2912920
post_number: 74
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/keller-silliness/161807/74
date: "2020-06-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I would lean towards Alex being correct on this. While there is a vast array of volatile sulfur compounds, lit match in my opinion is usually a combination of volatile sulfur compounds and a relatively high level of molecular sulfur. For a house like Coche, to see lit match vintage in and vintage…"
word_count: 199
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I would lean towards Alex being correct on this. While there is a vast array of volatile sulfur compounds, lit match in my opinion is usually a combination of volatile sulfur compounds and a relatively high level of molecular sulfur. For a house like Coche, to see lit match vintage in and vintage…

I certainly didn’t say that Coche was a “no or low sulfur house”. Their sulfur use is very classic. But there are a lot of producers who use similar levels of sulfites but whose wines don’t taste like Coche’s. If the secret to Coche’s winemaking were as simple as adding more sulfites, more people would be making wines that taste that way. Nor, for that matter, do I think that “matchstick” is a particularly good characterization of the Coche signature (for me, it’s more about the combination of very bright fruit tones—citrus, green orchard fruit—with a complex overlay of hazelnut/sesame). Indeed, I’d argue that the popular caricature of Coche’s style as simply “reductive” is one reason why so few producers have had any success emulating it. As I said, however, this is hugely tangential to the topic at hand, and I only took the bait because, when Alex said that the Coche wines taste of “a huge dose of sulfur”, I wrongly assumed that he meant that they tasted of a huge dose (i.e. added by Coche) of sulfites; and on that point he has corrected my misunderstanding.
