---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161887
topic_slug: most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had
topic_title: "Most disappointing 'great' wine you've ever had?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had/161887
post_id: 2915397
post_number: 61
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had/161887/61
date: "2020-06-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Marcus or William…any thoughts on the conversion rate of modern yeasts versus older/native yeasts causing at least some of the increase in alcohols? Assuming vignerons want to make lower alcohol wines, do yeasts hinder them much?"
word_count: 326
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Marcus or William…any thoughts on the conversion rate of modern yeasts versus older/native yeasts causing at least some of the increase in alcohols? Assuming vignerons want to make lower alcohol wines, do yeasts hinder them much?

I don’t think that’s so important, especially as even producers that don’t inoculate are seeing similarly higher abvs than 30 years ago. Factors I would highlight would be:

- the choice to pick riper fruit
- the legacy of clones geared to produce large volumes and high sugar, which accumulate sugar rapidly in a warming climate and all the more rapidly with yields declining due to vine age or producer choice
- more sorting, so fewer marginally ripe grapes to bring down the average potential alcohol
- closed fermentation tanks as opposed to open-tops
- the use of concentrators

To look at Bordeaux with broad brush strokes, there was a viticultural revolution that took off precipitously with the massive replantings that followed the 1956 frost: lower vine densities adapted for mechanization, more productive rootstocks and clones, and more intensive use of agrochemicals (with herbicide use superseding cultivating the soils at many addresses by the 60s). The result was yields that doubled or tripled (but importantly with the same sugar levels as before) compared to what was achieved in the 1950s by the 1970s, and even though there are still plenty of very nice Bordeaux, it would be hard to say that more than a handful of wines made in that decade are fit to stand alongside the best wines of the 50s or before. By the end of the 1980s, vintages began to get a bit riper on average, and producers tried waiting longer to bring a bit more flesh and character to the vines; but the farming was still geared towards producing historically large volumes; and towards meeting the historical challenge of getting enough sugar rather than the emerging challenge of having too much. And that problem only got more acute in the 2000s. That’s how we get from 11.0%, chaptalized to 11.5 or 12%, to natural alcohols of 14.5 in just a few decades. Or at least, that’s my interpretation.
