---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161887
topic_slug: most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had
topic_title: "Most disappointing 'great' wine you've ever had?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had/161887
post_id: 2916403
post_number: 108
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had/161887/108
date: "2020-06-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "What is so interesting about Burgundy in the last few years is that people are really rethinking viticulture quite radically for the first time in several generations. I have loved your posts (and pictures) on this subject and it really deserves a full thread. For example, what are the last few…"
word_count: 194
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> What is so interesting about Burgundy in the last few years is that people are really rethinking viticulture quite radically for the first time in several generations. I have loved your posts (and pictures) on this subject and it really deserves a full thread. For example, what are the last few…

In the 1980s, one can certainly look back to a few outliers forsaking herbicides and preferring to cultivate the soils, as well as a few people going organic and biodynamic. Yet the fundamentals of viticulture, by contrast, hadn’t changed since the vineyards were reconstituted post-phylloxera: trellised vines hedged quite low, in rows, at a density of around 10,000 vines per hectare. From that perspective, the “cutting edge” viticulture of the '80s, '90s and '00s looks more like getting away from some unsustainable practices that negatively impact wine quality, rather than any real innovation.

In 1999, Lalou Bize-Leroy stopped hedging her vines; Jean-Marie Guffens in the Mâconnais has been doing very minimal hedging for a long; Dugat-Py started rolling canopies in 2007. But it is really only in the last few years that other growers started getting interested in this, and how it’s exploding. It really feels as if a critical mass has been reached that could see the Côte d’Or look very different. Trapet just put all their Combottes on échalas, for example! Charles Lachaux is experimenting with no-till. There is so much going on.
