---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161887
topic_slug: most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had
topic_title: "Most disappointing 'great' wine you've ever had?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had/161887
post_id: 2914834
post_number: 24
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/most-disappointing-great-wine-youve-ever-had/161887/24
date: "2020-06-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "The La Chapelle 1990 I understand more than one bottling, and the European versions are stellar. The ones I have had in the U.S. were underwhelming. […] There were different versions? I’m confused."
word_count: 309
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> The La Chapelle 1990 I understand more than one bottling, and the European versions are stellar. The ones I have had in the U.S. were underwhelming. […] There were different versions? I’m confused.

Yes, and this is quite common. Until the 20th century, almost all wines were bottled directly from the barrel, foudre or tank. Blending a large number of barrels to make a homogeneous cuvée requires pumps and large blending tanks—from a technical perspective, not so easy without modern equipment. And to this day you will have multiple bottlings of many, many wines that carry the same label. In Chablis, for example, many producers did two or even three bottlings of their huge 2018 crop, with the first bottling in many cases coming in February the year after the vintage—whereas the last bottling might see another 10 months or more on the lees. As for Jaboulet, I think it was quite typical for there to be different bottlings for different importers (my experience has been that the Malmaison bottlings for Clive Coates in the UK were the best in the era when that label was extant). And in the 1990 vintage, the variation is quite flagrant: I have had some great bottles, and also some that were very flat and roasted.

Incidentally, a friend ran numbers on the US bottling of 1990 La Chapelle recently: it’s 13.64% alcohol, pH 3.38 and TA of 0.63. Looking at the numbers alone one would assume that it was heavily acid-adjusted. And when, for context, one considers that most Gentaz Côte Rôtie were below 11.5%, it is clear that the 1990 La Chapelle was at least on the cusp of overripeness.

For me, even the best bottles of the 1990 are ultimately not on the level of the 1978, 1972 or 1961, or indeed even some of the less-celebrated vintages such as 1982 (from a cold cellar). But it took me a few years and quite a few bottles to come to that point of view.
