---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 161930
topic_slug: climate-change-and-burgundy
topic_title: "Climate change and Burgundy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/climate-change-and-burgundy/161930
post_id: 2916269
post_number: 16
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/climate-change-and-burgundy/161930/16
date: "2020-06-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 349
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

This is a very interesting question, or set of questions, but as yet I don’t think there are any simple answers. The grands crus have historically been the most hydrologically buffered as well as the warmest: they have better access to water than premiers crus with shallower soils further up the slope. Since hot vintages are also generally dry vintages, this is significant.

And then there’s the huge genetic diversity of Pinot Noir: Roederer in Champagne have precocious massale selections that ripen three weeks before later-ripening selections; understandably, they are favoring the latter for replanting, whereas a lot of historic planting decisions in Champagne were predicated on achieving maximum ripeness in a cooler climate. Mutatis mutants, the same applies to the Côte d’Or. Chardonnay isn’t as varied so I worry more for white Burgundy: there could be a strong argument for allowing a certain percentage of other varieties, as was historically the case—Aligoté, Pinot Blanc, Pinot Auxerrois etc—and as is still permitted in e.g. Savigny-lès-Beaune. Some of this still exists: one famous grower in the Côte de Beaune still has a half-hectare of Pinot Blanc in a prime appellation! Rootstocks are also part of the equation.

But there’s a lot that can be done in terms of viticulture, too. Letting canopies grow higher without hedging; maintaining cover crops year-round. Even in 2018, Charles Lachaux in Vosne didn’t have a single wine above 13% alcohol (btw Mel, I tasted Irancy 2018s with >15% so I’m not sure the Lafarge family should necessarily take your advice).

One thing that really surprised me is that in the 2019 vintage, which had hotter heat spikes than 2018 and less rain during the growing season, resulted in wines with lower pHs and (at least based on what I have tasted,  as well as what I vinified myself) finer tannins. Also very healthy must nitrogen levels. That is the opposite of what one would have expected. Yet Burgundy was celebrated for Pinot Noir during the Mediaeval Warm Period, after all…
