---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162064
topic_slug: french-naturalistas-and-other-curiosities-foillard-dauvissat-desjourneys-vini-viti-vinci-etc
topic_title: "French naturalistas and other curiosities (Foillard, Dauvissat, Desjourneys, Vini Viti Vinci, etc.)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/french-naturalistas-and-other-curiosities-foillard-dauvissat-desjourneys-vini-viti-vinci-etc/162064
post_id: 2922364
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/french-naturalistas-and-other-curiosities-foillard-dauvissat-desjourneys-vini-viti-vinci-etc/162064/19
date: "2020-06-26"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I want Beaujolais to feel like a Rhône Grenache as much as I want a Burgundy to feel like Rhône Grenache. Gamay might pull that trick more effortlessly than Pinot Noir, which is bound to feel just blowzy and pruney, but it still really isn’t my cup of tea."
word_count: 281
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:50+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I want Beaujolais to feel like a Rhône Grenache as much as I want a Burgundy to feel like Rhône Grenache. Gamay might pull that trick more effortlessly than Pinot Noir, which is bound to feel just blowzy and pruney, but it still really isn’t my cup of tea.

I hear you. And I think many of the better producers would agree with you, at least in private.
> Thanks for the information [on 2019], sounds promising! Any data points on which producers fared better and which did not, if heterogeneity is to be expected?
I would say, the usual suspects. A wine that really exemplifies how elegant 2019 can be is the regular Clos de la Roilette cuvée. It’s the most “Fleurie-styled” wine from them for several years.

Note that some 2019s will be bottled later as producers still have plenty of stock of 2018 to sell.
> Do you have any idea how much oak Duperray used with the first vintages? I was expecting this vintage to be quite burly and oaky, but it turned out to be quite contrary to my expectations - which I did not mind one bit! I’ve also had the 2007 Fleurie some years back, and that was quite fresh and pure-fruited in style as well, showing very little obvious oak influence.
Maybe 20% IIRC? But in any case, the quality of the oak was always very good - Fabien knows what he is doing in that regard, as is evidenced by his whites. I am not convinced that Gamay ever needs any new oak (a position Duperray has come around to), but I also suspect that poorly adapted barrels are a factor in why so much oaky Beaujolais ends up being a train wreck. The leading local cooper is Dargaud et Jaegle in Romanèche, whose barrels are popular and work well in the Mâconnais (e.g. chez Daniel Barraud), but which often seem to contribute very lactone-rich, coconutty aromas to Beaujolais.
