---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162179
topic_slug: jancis-robinson-on-the-next-cult-wines
topic_title: "Jancis Robinson on the next cult wines"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/jancis-robinson-on-the-next-cult-wines/162179
post_id: 2924438
post_number: 31
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/jancis-robinson-on-the-next-cult-wines/162179/31
date: "2020-06-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Without intending to pick a fight, I don’t think too many wineries are as worried about negative reviews as they used to be either. I can’t speak to other wineries, but no critic has ever inclined in any way that my reviews could be affected by anything other than how the wines show when tasted. It…"
word_count: 257
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Without intending to pick a fight, I don’t think too many wineries are as worried about negative reviews as they used to be either. I can’t speak to other wineries, but no critic has ever inclined in any way that my reviews could be affected by anything other than how the wines show when tasted. It…

That’s certainly true of the top estates of the Côte d’Or. Sure, there are some (or at least two) domaines that I sense consider it lèse magesté if they don’t come out at the top of the report, and I would probably feel the same were I in their shoes. But as you say, the top producers in Burgundy don’t need to be reviewed to sell their wines many times over, and I’m under no illusions about that. Equally, however, I think even the top addresses appreciate the validation of hard work that comes from good reviews from tasters they respect. And they are perhaps more interested than they might readily admit to have a sense of where their wines are situated in a broader regional context—as obviously, no producers taste as widely as I do within Burgundy. Where the reviews begin to have a bigger impact is when you leave Chassagne and go to Santenay, for example: in the less celebrated appellations, taking the same time and attention to visit estates as I do in the important villages can have a big impact, and one sees good producers getting new importers, and in turn, consumers drinking the wines. In places such as the Côte Chalonnaise and Beaujolais it’s even more impactful. I think this has the potential to encourage good practice, especially at a viticultural level, without imposing any particularly idiosyncratic stylistic preferences on the wines. So the positive power of reviews, even in Burgundy, is still quite potent.
