---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162610
topic_slug: william-kelley
topic_title: "WILLIAM KELLEY!"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelley/162610
post_id: 2940604
post_number: 169
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelley/162610/169
date: "2020-07-22"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "To pull this thread back to Back to William… what do you think about his Bordeaux palate and would you buy based on his rating? Never having had a Tertre Roteboeuf, I Picked up several bottles of 2010 based on his CT note (100 points!), and I’m curious if you would do the same, given your general…"
word_count: 244
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> To pull this thread back to Back to William… what do you think about his Bordeaux palate and would you buy based on his rating? Never having had a Tertre Roteboeuf, I Picked up several bottles of 2010 based on his CT note (100 points!), and I’m curious if you would do the same, given your general…

I have a case of bottles and another of magnums of that wine, so my money is at least where my mouth is! Mitjaville wines are certainly not shy, but they are in their own stylistic universe and don’t really have much in common—aside from coming from Saint-Emilion and seeing 100% new oak—with some of their “modernist” neighbors. François does pretty much everything his own idiosyncratic way, from pruning to vinification to élevage; and he is a very thoughtful, interesting man to talk to. That note was written when I was a graduate student, and today, I actually find myself gravitating as much towards the less powerful vintages of Tertre Roteboeuf (e.g. 1999, 2001, 2006) as I do to the more muscular ones (1998 is probably showing the best of all today). I might think of opening a bottle of 2010 in another five years or so. I have some 2010 Roc de Cambes which I’m using as something of a stalking horse for the evolution of the 2010 Tertre Roteboeuf.

But I am pretty happy to be specializing in Burgundy and Champagne, I must say. That already makes for 25,000 km on the roads of France and over 4,000 wines per year, which is more than enough for me. So I’m afraid I have to disclaim any aspiration to cover Bordeaux (even if I’ll continue to enjoy the region’s wines in private).
