---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162791
topic_slug: upcoming-2020-burgundy-vintage
topic_title: "Upcoming 2020 Burgundy vintage"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/upcoming-2020-burgundy-vintage/162791
post_id: 2952209
post_number: 64
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/upcoming-2020-burgundy-vintage/162791/64
date: "2020-08-07"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "This is really quite interesting. It seems that there is a feeling that letting the grapes hang to achieve greater ripeness (physiological maturity?) is less favored a practice than preserving the acids in the grapes. Presumably it could be the other way round where acid could be added to the must,…"
word_count: 307
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> This is really quite interesting. It seems that there is a feeling that letting the grapes hang to achieve greater ripeness (physiological maturity?) is less favored a practice than preserving the acids in the grapes. Presumably it could be the other way round where acid could be added to the must,…

Physiological maturity is the ripeness of the grapes’ phenolics, not how much sugar they contain. In Burgundy, in some vintages one can achieve physiological maturity before one has attained what is typically considered optimal sugar accumulation (i.e. a potential alcohol of between 13 and 13.5%). It is here that chaptalization can be advantageous. In parts of California, the issue, by contrast, is that grapes accumulate excessive sugar before they have attained physiological maturity.

As for barrels, they are far from being inert vessels and make a vast contribution to a wine’s structure / texture, flavors, and aromas. I consider new oak barrels much more impactful on wine character than moderate chaptalization FWIW.

I understand the surprise you express in your last paragraph, but it might be lessened if you knew the true extent of chaptalization in the '60s, '70s and early '80s. We are talking about three or four degrees being quite commonplace. Max Léglise, the region’s leading oenologist back in the day, insisted that producers needed to acidify any wine that was chaptalized to compensate for the added volume. It was also very common to add tannins to stabilize the wine. So in a vintage such as 1974, you might chaptalize by three degrees, add tannins, add tartaric (in the barrel as likely as in the tank), rack the wine three times, fine it, filter it, and bottle it. Obviously, some producers bucked this trend, but this was the dominant approach. Today, by contrast, when we talk about chaptalization we are talking about more like half a degree or so, perhaps bit more, but far from the level of yesteryear. So yes, you’re correct to think that a good part of the chaptalization buffer has been eaten into by naturally riper grapes! It was just a much bigger buffer than you imagined.
