---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162799
topic_slug: telltale-characteristics-of-top-vineyards-in-chablis
topic_title: "Telltale Characteristics of Top Vineyards in Chablis"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/telltale-characteristics-of-top-vineyards-in-chablis/162799
post_id: 2942928
post_number: 4
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/telltale-characteristics-of-top-vineyards-in-chablis/162799/4
date: "2020-07-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Hmmmm … the map never lies, does it? Your take is spot-on as usual, William. Let me ask you this then: What makes Clos the undisputed heavyweight champ of Chablis?"
word_count: 243
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Hmmmm … the map never lies, does it? Your take is spot-on as usual, William. Let me ask you this then: What makes Clos the undisputed heavyweight champ of Chablis?

The maps are certainly a good start, for sure.

Les Clos has a pretty uniform south-easterly exposition, so the biggest variation is in altitude from top to bottom (almost 100m). This map of the vineyard ownership is quite interesting: [Interactive Map of Chablis Grand Cru 'Les Clos' by parcel with all owners. — Fernando Beteta, MS](https://fernandobeteta.com/blog/2017/3/3/interactive-map-of-chablis-grand-cru-les-clos-by-parcel-with-all-owners) It’s the most homogeneous climat in the grand cru slope in that respect. It makes quite ripe, muscular, multidimensional wines, as I’m sure you’ve experienced. They are arguably not the most Chablisienne-styled wines in the region (more power, less “oyster shell”), and it’s one of the sites that one could confuse with Côte de Beaune under the right circumstances. I certainly admire Les Clos (I have mags of Raveneau’s 2017 for my daughter’s birth year!) but I don’t know if Chablis lovers would necessarily anoint it the “undisputed heavyweight champ” (except in the sense that it’s often the most powerful wine). Personally, chez Raveneau I often prefer the steelier, more introverted profile of Valmur; and chez Dauvissat, I tend to gravitate towards the floral-mineral amalgam of Les Preuses (higher altitude, stonier soil, and longer sunlight hours than Les Clos). It is, however, the most prestigious site and is often the wine producers serve last in a tasting.
