---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162791
topic_slug: upcoming-2020-burgundy-vintage
topic_title: "Upcoming 2020 Burgundy vintage"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/upcoming-2020-burgundy-vintage/162791
post_id: 2951431
post_number: 51
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/upcoming-2020-burgundy-vintage/162791/51
date: "2020-08-06"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Do tell! When you are getting pretty good brix levels with the weather, why bother to push up the alcohol levels? Or simply wait a little longer and not harvest in August or early September? I just assumed that vintners were picking earlier not only to preserve acidity but to hold down alcohol…"
word_count: 261
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Do tell! When you are getting pretty good brix levels with the weather, why bother to push up the alcohol levels? Or simply wait a little longer and not harvest in August or early September? I just assumed that vintners were picking earlier not only to preserve acidity but to hold down alcohol…

Well, firstly, natural sugars are not always so high as you seem to think. In 2017, many Côte de Nuits wines came in with natural alcohols in the high elevens or low twelves. There was a story of some Echezeaux grapes being so low in potential alcohol that they were rejected by the négociant who was planning to buy them, as they didn’t meet the AOC minimum. Most of the top producers chaptalized. Fichet the viticultural supply store in Meursault makes a sump with a motorized paddle and a funnel for gradually adding sugar while the paddle mixes it into the must. One could see pallets of sugar being delivered at some large domaines (cue jokes to the effect that “grand-maman a fait beaucoup de confiture” etc etc). This was also very much the case in 2016, as I saw it with my own eyes, and I believe in 2010 as well.

Secondly, producers looking to pick on acidity may end up with less potential alcohol than they would like. Arnaud Ente, for example, says that if he has to choose he would rather pick early and add sugar than pick late and add acid.

Thirdly, chaptalizing is a way to prolong the fermentation.

And perhaps there are other things, too…

This technique has been around a very long time. No, the sugar cane of Guatemala is not part of the terroir; but neither are the forests of the Centre, and plenty of their oak trees tend to come into contact with the Côte d’Or’s best wines.
