---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162801
topic_slug: article-the-era-of-grower-champagnes-is-over
topic_title: "Article: The era of grower Champagnes is over"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/article-the-era-of-grower-champagnes-is-over/162801
post_id: 2942701
post_number: 11
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/article-the-era-of-grower-champagnes-is-over/162801/11
date: "2020-07-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 365
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

I’m a little skeptical of the argument here. Taken very literally, it may be true, but the “growers” that are going to go under are not the producers that most people reading the article will be thinking of when they hear the phrase “grower Champagne”.

Strictly speaking, there have been grower-bottlers in Champagne for a very long time, and their numbers really multiplied in the 1930s when wine prices fell and the only way for owner to eek out a living on their very small holdings (average was around 2ha back then) was to bottle and market the product themselves, selling grapes having become insufficiently remunerative. There are many “growers” today whom we have never heard of, and who produce their wines, as Hervé Chiquet says in the article, according to the oenologist’s textbook: much of their production is sold to the domestic French market, either at the cellar door or in the supermarkets. The wines are often, frankly, not great (though if you are price conscious and simply looking for “bubbles” they may sometimes suffice I guess); and indeed it remains the case that the very worst wines in Champagne are produced by growers in this sense, rather than either Grandes Marques or cooperatives.

But when we talk about “grower Champagne”, we are in reality mostly talking about the sort of artisanal revolution in viticulture and winemaking that began in the 1970s with Selosse and which today has really coalesced into what can be called a movement. For the reasons given above, talking of a “grower revolution” is not necessarily the best way to describe this movement, even though its agents are indeed for the most part growers (and even though I have used the term in print myself).

The reality is that Tyson is probably correct if he is saying that there will be fewer poor to mediocre RMs (and RCs, too) that no one participating in this forum has ever heard of. And this is a trend that has been evident for over a decade. But I am very doubtful that any growers with even a modicum of a reputation for quality are about to go out of business.
