---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162801
topic_slug: article-the-era-of-grower-champagnes-is-over
topic_title: "Article: The era of grower Champagnes is over"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/article-the-era-of-grower-champagnes-is-over/162801
post_id: 2944422
post_number: 41
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/article-the-era-of-grower-champagnes-is-over/162801/41
date: "2020-07-27"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "My only quibble with a lot of grower wines is that they generally trend towards low-or-no-dosage and even as someone who really enjoys acidity I find a few examples a bit joyless and find myself wanting a bit more generosity and unctuousness to balance the sharp, linear character of the fruit. I’d…"
word_count: 179
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:49+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> My only quibble with a lot of grower wines is that they generally trend towards low-or-no-dosage and even as someone who really enjoys acidity I find a few examples a bit joyless and find myself wanting a bit more generosity and unctuousness to balance the sharp, linear character of the fruit. I’d…

It’s a tiresome point to make, but I do think it’s important to remember that this is about balance rather than the numbers. To take the examples cited above, the La Française with 3g/l instead of nine would likely be wincingly tart; whereas the Longitude with 9g/l would surely be cloyingly sweet. Cédric Bouchard’s wines are perfectly balanced without any dosage at all, and Olivier Collin’s are vinous and rich with between 1 and 2 grams per liter. While there certainly are, to my taste, some tart, excessively austere Champagnes being produced, let’s not reduce this, as some commentators tend to, to “add more sugar”!

It is also worth adding that “dosage” can be deceiving, as some vins clairs can retain appreciable levels of residual sugar (which is another factor among several that make tasting vins clairs especially challenging). For example, a base wine with 3 g/l RS that sees 5 grams dosage has higher sugar levels than a totally dry base wine that gets 6.5 grams per liter dosage.
