---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162924
topic_slug: natty-wine-a-millennial-con
topic_title: "Natty Wine: A Millennial Con?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/natty-wine-a-millennial-con/162924
post_id: 2946432
post_number: 36
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/natty-wine-a-millennial-con/162924/36
date: "2020-07-30"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 379
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

This thread is definitely tending in the direction that most debates about natural wine tend to take, which is a sort of circular and more or less acrimonious focus on definitions. I think that’s partly because, as Greg observes, natural wine is more of an “aesthetic” than anything else (I once described it as an aesthetic in search of a didactic), and thus inherently hard to pin down (“I know it when I see it” etc). It’s also because people sometimes resent the appropriation of the word “natural”, and its reduction to a question of sulfites, which does implicitly insinuate that other wines are “unnatural”—and yes, in a sense, inferior.

At the same time, the Vogue article gets it right when it attributes the popularity of natural wines to a pursuit of authenticity, whatever exactly that might mean. And here it’s interesting to reflect that we have artisanal bread, artisanal cheese, craft beer etc—but all the wine movement has is “natural wine”. Whereas with bread and cheese etc our conception of what an authentic product is makes plenty of space for craft and technique, in wine we have instead a movement that has come to be ideologically premised on the renunciation of technique (even though, in fact, its wines have come to be easily identifiable by two techniques: carbonic maceration and low sulfites).

I would love to see some sort of “artisanal wine” movement come into being, defined perhaps as wines made using techniques validated by a minimum of 150 years of experience. That would retain sulfites, inoculation, chaptalization within reason, and fining; but eliminate enzymes, centrifuges, filters, many oenological additives, and most obnoxious viticultural practices. Producers that would meet such a definition would include Foillard, Richard Leroy, Selosse, DRC, Thierry Allemand, etc etc; and the use of sulfites, instead of being definitional, would become just one aesthetic / technical choice. If the opposite of natural wine is some sort to of hypothetical “unnatural wine”, the opposite of artisanal wine would be industrial wine—which seems to me much more coherent. Some producers in France are talking in this sense, such as the Union des Gens de Métier, but the notion hasn’t really percolated into Anglophone wine discourse yet. Hopefully that will happen soon.
