---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 162924
topic_slug: natty-wine-a-millennial-con
topic_title: "Natty Wine: A Millennial Con?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/natty-wine-a-millennial-con/162924
post_id: 2948181
post_number: 94
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/natty-wine-a-millennial-con/162924/94
date: "2020-08-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "What do you think of Jamie Goode’s book “Authentic Wine”? Around here, not so long ago, the term “artisanal” was so over-played it became cliche. In wine and everything else. It was seen as marketing folks trying too hard, apparently realized, as it just sort of went away. I think it implies a sort…"
word_count: 266
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> What do you think of Jamie Goode’s book “Authentic Wine”? Around here, not so long ago, the term “artisanal” was so over-played it became cliche. In wine and everything else. It was seen as marketing folks trying too hard, apparently realized, as it just sort of went away. I think it implies a sort…

Mea culpa, I haven’t read it…

And that’s for sure: any term of approbation will be appropriated, devalued, and thereby abased in short order, unless the average consumer is sufficiently informed to laugh in the face of such misinformation (and as we can see with “clean wine”, that isn’t the case). Beyond that, however, it’s interesting that it’s hard to escape French terms, and that many of the debates in the Anglophone wine conversation could in fact be ascribed to things being lost in translation. In France, if a foodstuff or beverage is “nature”, that means it’s unseasoned / unmixed / uncooked / unadulterated: not so much that it’s “natural”, per se. Taken in this sense, it’s easy to see why the natural wine movement should define itself by it opposition to sulfur: “vin nature”, taken literally, is wine without additives of any kind, and that is where the term suggests the line in the sand be drawn. Equally, in French, “artisanale” doesn’t really have pretensions connotations: what in the US might be called an “industrial park” or in the UK an “industrial estate” is, in France, a “zone artisanale”—meaning quite simply a place where skilled people make things, skillfully. It is a classless term, and a carpenter or baker will be proud to embrace it if they are serious about what they do. Transliterated into the English “artisanal” it immediately acquires pompous connotations. Which may, in itself, say something about how the Atlantic world has, beyond the upper-middle classes, lost touch with skillfully made bread, cheese, etc.
