---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163019
topic_slug: tn-2018-jean-foillard-morgon-cote-du-py
topic_title: "TN: 2018 Jean Foillard Morgon Côte du Py"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-jean-foillard-morgon-cote-du-py/163019
post_id: 2950080
post_number: 37
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-jean-foillard-morgon-cote-du-py/163019/37
date: "2020-08-04"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William Kelly loves Roilette in 2018 as well. I haven’t tried any 18s yet, but I did just buy a sampler pack based mostly on WK’s praise for these: 2018 Clos de la Roilette Fleurie Cuvée Tardive 2018 Château Thivin Côte de Brouilly 2018 Thivin Reverdon 2018 Jean Foillard Morgon Côte du Py 2018…"
word_count: 199
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:41+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William Kelly loves Roilette in 2018 as well. I haven’t tried any 18s yet, but I did just buy a sampler pack based mostly on WK’s praise for these: 2018 Clos de la Roilette Fleurie Cuvée Tardive 2018 Château Thivin Côte de Brouilly 2018 Thivin Reverdon 2018 Jean Foillard Morgon Côte du Py 2018…

I think you’ll enjoy all of those! Roilette Tardive 2018 is very reminiscent of the 2011…

To me, the hating on 2018 Beaujolais is a little exaggerated. Taste 500+ examples of it, and you will find that it’s a charming, easygoing, fruit-driven vintage as a whole; with some out-of-balance monsters (though fewer than 2015), and some really excellent wines which are built to age. If it isn’t the amazing vintage that the region’s publicity body claimed (and as several commentators reiterated), by no means is it a train wreck.

It seems, however, that despite what happened in 2003, 2005, 2009, 2015, and 2017, it’s only with the 2018 vintage that folks are figuring out that what is happening in all European wine regions is happening in the Beaujolais, and that the vintages that used to be the norm are likely, in the future, to be the exceptions. Hopefully the kind of balance attained in the best 2019s will be a more appealing model of what a more sun-kissed future can hold than 2018 is proving to be for some of the people who haven’t appreciated Foillard’s 2018 here…
