---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163019
topic_slug: tn-2018-jean-foillard-morgon-cote-du-py
topic_title: "TN: 2018 Jean Foillard Morgon Côte du Py"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-jean-foillard-morgon-cote-du-py/163019
post_id: 2950736
post_number: 44
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2018-jean-foillard-morgon-cote-du-py/163019/44
date: "2020-08-05"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William Kelley: Cautionary caveat: the last two bottles of the 2015 I tasted were getting a bit oxidative, having been quite delicious on release. This raises an interesting question for the Beaujolais neophyte — what’s the typical aging curve for bojo? I’m sure there are numerous variables at work…"
word_count: 206
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:41+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William Kelley: Cautionary caveat: the last two bottles of the 2015 I tasted were getting a bit oxidative, having been quite delicious on release. This raises an interesting question for the Beaujolais neophyte — what’s the typical aging curve for bojo? I’m sure there are numerous variables at work…

*If* it is “traditionally” made (meaning foot trodden whole bunches, a two week+ maceration, followed by élevage of >12 months in used barrels, foudres or cement), and comes from well-farmed vines and a creditable vintage, the aging potential is considerable! I have drunk many cru Beaujolais from years such as '71, '66, '64, '61, '59, '55, '53, '49, '47, '45 etc that are still in fine form today. I even have some 1964 Beaujolais without cru or even “Villages” status that is still a delicious drink: all its tannins are long melted away but it’s aging on its balance.

However, that’s a big “if”, given the ubiquity of thermovinification for more commercial wines and sans soufre cuvées at the other end of the spectrum. Producers that I think produce cuvées that will enjoy 20-30 years aging (or rather “maturing”, i.e. they improve rather than simply surviving) would include Alain Coudert’s Clos de la Roilette, Louis-Claude Desvignes, Daniel Bouland, Joseph Chamonard (who actually systematically late release), Foillard (off vintages of the early 1990s are still drinking well from good cellars), Jules Desjourneys, J-M Burgaud, and Château Thivin. That’s not an exhaustive list but it’s a good start.
