---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163121
topic_slug: is-california-finally-making-great-white-wines
topic_title: "Is California Finally Making Great White Wines?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/is-california-finally-making-great-white-wines/163121
post_id: 2952875
post_number: 38
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/is-california-finally-making-great-white-wines/163121/38
date: "2020-08-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Absolutely true. A young Ramey or Aubert, not to mention Rhys chardonnay is pretty damn good. Would be fun to do another Judgment of Paris today with some GC Burgs lined up against the best of California. Who is up to the challenge? Count me in, but it would be very easy to tell which one was the…"
word_count: 180
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Absolutely true. A young Ramey or Aubert, not to mention Rhys chardonnay is pretty damn good. Would be fun to do another Judgment of Paris today with some GC Burgs lined up against the best of California. Who is up to the challenge? Count me in, but it would be very easy to tell which one was the…

True, but then they probably had less experience tasting American wines than me… I have worked harvest in California, make wine in California, and reviewed Californian wines professionally for three years. To be clear, I’m just saying it would be easy to pick out Aubert (or Marcassin, Ferren, Kistler). There are plenty of California Chardonnays that would be easy to confuse with Burgundy blind: things such as Sandhi and Rhys at the racier end of the spectrum, all the way to Ramey and perhaps even Kongsgaard at the richer end of the spectrum. It’s not just about power and weight but also about style and flavor profile.

I actually once did a tasting such as this where results were properly moderated, and 1995 Kalin Cellars CH and 2002 DRC Montrachet came out joint first…

As for pricing, that’s an interesting one. Ex-domaine, Ramonet Bâtard is cheaper than Aubert Sugar Shack, and Niellon’s Chevalier is cheaper than Marcassin. So comparing allocation pricing with allocation pricing (as opposed to retail), the white Burgundies are arguably better value.
