---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163231
topic_slug: aging-champagnes-buying-drinking-aged-champagnes-help-please
topic_title: "Aging champagnes/ buying drinking aged champagnes- help please"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/aging-champagnes-buying-drinking-aged-champagnes-help-please/163231
post_id: 2956060
post_number: 43
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/aging-champagnes-buying-drinking-aged-champagnes-help-please/163231/43
date: "2020-08-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William, whatever they are paying you at the WA, it ain’t nearly enough. Blake, ever dip you toe into Bouchard? Much more like a still wine and in a way, I get it that he wants you to taste more of where the grapes are grown rather than just dazzle you with aromatic fireworks and lots of bubbles. I…"
word_count: 194
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:31+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William, whatever they are paying you at the WA, it ain’t nearly enough. Blake, ever dip you toe into Bouchard? Much more like a still wine and in a way, I get it that he wants you to taste more of where the grapes are grown rather than just dazzle you with aromatic fireworks and lots of bubbles. I…

Well, given that Cédric’s very first vintages are still showing nicely, from the original disgorgements, I don’t think there are any concerns. For me, as I contended in a post earlier in this thread, they age much more in the manner of still wines from e.g. Burgundy or Chablis. Because there is no sugar in the equation, they do not pick up those toasted/nutty/roasted aromas that are an important component in many old Champagnes and which seem to be, to an important degree, Maillard-derived.

In this respect, I tend to disagree with Robert’s post above where he writes that aged Champagne is “similar to aged white Burgundy”. I do not find that aged white Burgundy develops the aromas of e.g. burnt toast, coffee, caramel (unless, of course, those were there from the beginning due to barrel maturation)—or at least, certainly not in the first thirty years (I can think of white Burgundies from the '40s, '50s, and '60s that display some of these characteristics). And if the closure is doing its job, and the wine is correctly stored, it really shouldn’t be “slightly oxidized”.
