---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163451
topic_slug: three-chassagne-montrachet-parcels-compared-2020
topic_title: "Three Chassagne-Montrachet parcels compared (2020)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-chassagne-montrachet-parcels-compared-2020/163451
post_id: 2963170
post_number: 29
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-chassagne-montrachet-parcels-compared-2020/163451/29
date: "2020-08-23"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William, how much of the “newer” farming techniques is just better farming that always would have worked better and how much of it is a result of changes in climate that have necessitated changes in farming techniques? Thanks as always for your fascinating posts."
word_count: 202
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William, how much of the “newer” farming techniques is just better farming that always would have worked better and how much of it is a result of changes in climate that have necessitated changes in farming techniques? Thanks as always for your fascinating posts.

For growers such as Leroy, Olivier Lamy, J-M Vincent and others this has been a gradual process, going on over a decade or more, that just happens to be interestingly adapted to these warmer, earlier vintages. Higher canopies, avoiding trimming, experimenting with cover crops etc are all quite coherent developments from the perspective of plant physiology. Equally, there are vintages when having a high, untrimmed canopy harbors mildew to disastrous effect: in years like that (most recently 2016), it might not have been a bad idea to go in and hedge. Better to trim, after all, than loose all your leaves to disease! Of course, now the norm seems to be hot and sunny, some growers regret their planting decisions of a decade plus ago: devigorating rootstocks, for example, may have been adapted to the late '90s and early '2000s, but are struggling in 2020. And then there’s the question of how long-term your planning is: in fifty years, the grapes produced by the vines in parcel number three may look like those produced in parcel one; whereas parcel number one will have been replanted as its yields will have become derisory. So which generation is one planting for?
