---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163471
topic_slug: burgundys-2020-vintage-in-pictures
topic_title: "Burgundy's 2020 vintage in pictures"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/burgundys-2020-vintage-in-pictures/163471
post_id: 2963304
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/burgundys-2020-vintage-in-pictures/163471/13
date: "2020-08-23"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Fantastic pictures. The D’Arlot vines look like they’re about to collapse from the numerous giant clusters - yields seem so high. Latour…did the majority of their fruit even ripen? What is going on there? Arnoux, yikes. I know in the other thread you said that no-till is proving to be a difficult…"
word_count: 333
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Fantastic pictures. The D’Arlot vines look like they’re about to collapse from the numerous giant clusters - yields seem so high. Latour…did the majority of their fruit even ripen? What is going on there? Arnoux, yikes. I know in the other thread you said that no-till is proving to be a difficult…

I don’t think Latour have dropped the second crop, unlike the other producers in Romanée-Saint-Vivant in the photo! So that’s why you are seeing green clusters. Dropping the second crop does make a meaningful difference, so it might be something for them to consider in the future…

And yes, clearly the Arnoux vines suffered a lot with all the competition from the grasses. I wonder if mowing might have helped? I discussed that briefly with Charles and he said mowing favored undesirable plant species so he planned to roll. These grapes have already been picked, in any case. I guess the yields were below 15 hl/ha?

In summation, I think Leroy had a really good year this year, albeit with heavy and regular spraying somewhat later in the season that one might have wished for (the smell of sulfur in the vines was quite pungent). Dugat-Py at this stage have among the best, if not the best, farming in the Côte d’Or: obviously the winemaking was a bit pumped up in the past, but when you look at the grapes you understand why the wines are somewhat inky and concentrated; with Loïc’s lighter touch in the cellar, that fruit now gets the winemaking it deserves, and even if it’s an uphill struggle I’ll continue to encourage people to put preconceptions aside and try the recent vintages. Dujac and DRC appear to have done very well, too - DRC had dropped the sunburnt clusters before these photos were taken, which will help come harvest. I guess another observation would be how high are the yields Roumier and Cathiard hang, while nonetheless making superb wines. Every time you hear a wine merchant or wine writer talk about how low the yields are at those addresses, think of these photos! Of course, even these rather generous crops are nowhere near what might have been achieved twenty years ago when Burgundy was at its most fecund (and fertilized).
