---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 163451
topic_slug: three-chassagne-montrachet-parcels-compared-2020
topic_title: "Three Chassagne-Montrachet parcels compared (2020)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-chassagne-montrachet-parcels-compared-2020/163451
post_id: 2963134
post_number: 26
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/three-chassagne-montrachet-parcels-compared-2020/163451/26
date: "2020-08-23"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Wondering here why William seems to so strongly favor the high-canopied grapes which are already at 13% alcohol in mid-August of a warm year. Wouldn’t there be an advantage to the more shaded grapes which develop sugars more slowly? Even if they are tasting herbaceous in August they might be more…"
word_count: 255
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:48+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Wondering here why William seems to so strongly favor the high-canopied grapes which are already at 13% alcohol in mid-August of a warm year. Wouldn’t there be an advantage to the more shaded grapes which develop sugars more slowly? Even if they are tasting herbaceous in August they might be more…

In a normal year, the high canopies provide more shade! This year, the sun has tended to just burn off the leaves in the fruiting zone, and then shrivel a lot of fruit (though some selections-rootstock combinations have been much less affected by this than others). Narrower rows and higher densities would make for still more shade.

I think it’s clear that some producers who hedge lower than the grower in parcel one, and whose vines display more vegetative vigor, can make incredible wine (Coche would be an obvious example). In turn, the winemaking has to be adapted to the fruit. So there is not only one answer to these questions, and even if with these specific examples I do strongly the favor the first, there are certainly other ways to get great results. Parcel number two here, however, is over-fertilized and over-cropped, with herbaceous flavors and thin-skinned fruit. So in this case it is not so difficult to choose…

Interestingly, there is more to all of this than just the height of the canopy. Olivier Lamy has compared side by side rows this year with (1) trimmed high by machine (2) trimmed at the same height by hand and (3) rolled canopies that are not trimmed. He told me that 1 and 2 have 1% more potential alcohol but that 2 has notably more mature seeds and skins; and that 3 has just as mature seeds and skins as 2 but 1% lower potential alcohol. Vines are sensitive organisms!
