---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 165298
topic_slug: ama-william-kelley-edition-12-09-2020-5-30pst
topic_title: "AMA - William Kelley edition - 12/09/2020 5:30PST"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/ama-william-kelley-edition-12-09-2020-5-30pst/165298
post_id: 3050500
post_number: 176
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/ama-william-kelley-edition-12-09-2020-5-30pst/165298/176
date: "2020-12-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Just finished watching the tape. Lot of knowledge (obv) and energy from William. Appreciated the directness of many of his comments and his willingness to share his thoughts. I had to smile at the correlation between the clothing, the background setting, and conversational manner of the three of…"
word_count: 172
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Just finished watching the tape. Lot of knowledge (obv) and energy from William. Appreciated the directness of many of his comments and his willingness to share his thoughts. I had to smile at the correlation between the clothing, the background setting, and conversational manner of the three of…

Thanks for the kind words, Jim! Only just saw this. The bottles on the bookshelf are just nice recently opened bottles that survived recycling: the more competitive spot is the mantelpiece in Beaune, where, in the interests of matrimonial harmony, I am obliged to remove one bottle for every one that I add. My wife holds me to this rule quite strictly, to the extent of once recycling several empty Gentaz bottles while I was traveling in the Far East.

I would say I buy books rather than collecting them. While I appreciate nice bindings and editions, I don’t really own any books that aren’t readable copies, purchased to read or for reference. I do have a few books that belonged to the likes of John Ruskin, William Gladstone etc, acquired during my days studying 19th-century history, which are something of an exception to that rule, but for the most part mine is an entirely functional library. Just as the bottles in my cellar are intended to be opened!
