---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 165500
topic_slug: denis-bachelet-what-am-i-missing
topic_title: "Denis Bachelet - What am I Missing?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/denis-bachelet-what-am-i-missing/165500
post_id: 3038503
post_number: 58
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/denis-bachelet-what-am-i-missing/165500/58
date: "2020-12-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Thanks William for these infos about oak treatment and toasting. Would be nice to have a sort of database covering more producers."
word_count: 211
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:47+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Thanks William for these infos about oak treatment and toasting. Would be nice to have a sort of database covering more producers.

Yeah, at some point I was thinking of doing an article on coopers and their styles. But, it can be complicated: I often find Tonnellerie Rousseau, for example, quite impactful, with lots of lactones and spice; yet J-P Guyon works with 100% new Rousseau, with a proprietary toast, and it’s really not very impactful at all. So generalizing about styles can be perilous. Different coopers also seem to mark the wines more or less strongly at different stages of the élevage: I have found that e.g. Chassin is discreet early, and becomes more impactful at >12 months; whereas François Frères can deliver quite a big, toasty “prise de bois” early in élevage and really integrate at >12 months; Rémond seems to really show the most overtly oaky at 10-12 months and then integrate very fast after that (especially if you rack). I am sure winemakers will have had different experiences with those same coopers! But those are some extrapolations from what I have tasted / made in Burgundy. As I wrote a few days ago, there is no one ideal barrel for all wines (even if some barrels are obviously a lot better than others), but rather barrels that are optimized for a particular winemaking and maturation approach.
