---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 165804
topic_slug: tn-2013-felettig-chambolle-musigny-vv
topic_title: "TN: 2013 Felettig Chambolle-Musigny VV"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2013-felettig-chambolle-musigny-vv/165804
post_id: 3032161
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2013-felettig-chambolle-musigny-vv/165804/13
date: "2020-11-22"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I am interested. Thanks."
word_count: 335
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I am interested. Thanks.

Okay, I have an idle moment at LHR, awaiting my flight back to the USA, so here goes…

Gilbert has always been a diligent farmer, and over the years has supplied a bit of fruit to the likes of Dujac Fils et Père etc, though he now vinifies and bottles almost all of his own production (I buy a bit of fruit from him to produce two barrels of Chambolle every year—all fully disclosed in TWA—so I am quite familiar with his farming). This year, he went fully organic and I’m sure there will be other interesting initiatives in the vineyards in the years to come.

In terms of vinification, I described 2013 as his “breakthrough” vintage, and that’s all the more impressive in that it was a challenging vintage. Since then, Gilbert has been refining his cooperage choices (moving from quite a bit of Rémond towards more and more François Frères) and figuring out how much whole cluster works for his wines (more and more dialing in on a very classic 30%, having used a lot in the frost-impacted 2016 vintage). Since 2019, he’s using a vertical press which makes for cleaner lees and finer tannins. And with the 2019s, he’s pushing the élevage a bit longer than in the past (he wasn’t yet sure when he’d bottle them when I visited last week). All in all, I’d say the tendency is toward greater finesse, all the while retaining plenty of concentration and structure. Gilbert started working at the domaine in his teens in the 1970s, and what’s impressive is that he is still hungry to improve every year. It’s an interesting tasting for me, because we can really exchange quite frankly about the wines, barrels, picking dates, stems etc. My impression is that his 2019s (which I tasted twice from barrel) are his best to date, the Chambolle, Vosne and Beaune wines especially (the Corton is a bit of a monster!).
