---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 165984
topic_slug: 2010-dom-perignon-compared-to-08-taittinger-comtes-de-champagne
topic_title: "2010 Dom Perignon { compared to 08` Taittinger Comtes de Champagne}"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2010-dom-perignon-compared-to-08-taittinger-comtes-de-champagne/165984
post_id: 3036267
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/2010-dom-perignon-compared-to-08-taittinger-comtes-de-champagne/165984/19
date: "2020-11-28"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 267
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:47+00:00"
---

For me, Brad, the element missing from this discussion is farming. Just as it was missing from our discussion in another recent thread about which vintages favored which grape varieties. Those sort of generalizations play out quite well if we limit ourselves to the big houses, but the best farmers among the small producers don’t follow the rules: if Chardonnay in the southern CdB was the most favored in 2011, for example, that didn’t stop Francis Egly growing great Pinot Noir. In Burgundy, the best producers transcend vintage, and that is increasingly the case in Champagne. I do not believe ripeness and acidity is necessarily an either-or proposition, because better farming shows itself in the form of physiologically mature fruit that is also lower in pH . Until recently I would have agreed with you that Champagne will always have enough acidity; but I am lately tasting more and more wines—and this became especially noticeable with the 2015-base NVs from some of the less fastidious big houses and minor growers—that are a soft and flabby. And I do not think they were over-dosed. My tentative conclusion is that the same badly farmed vineyards that made shrill, meager wines twenty years ago (because the yields were too big to actually ripen) are now performing just as badly in warmer, riper vintages, delivering vins clairs that lack the cut that I look for in Champagne. And there is a measurable basis for this: vineyards treated with herbicides produce wines with a higher pH and lower TA than vineyards where the soils are cultivated.
