---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166110
topic_slug: what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying
topic_title: "What 2018 Red Burgundies are you Buying?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110
post_id: 3044355
post_number: 129
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110/129
date: "2020-12-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I think 18,19, and 20 will go the same way as 05, praised to the heavens by the critics and then a fair percentage purchased by wealthy Burgundy neophytes who believe the critics drinking windows, my experience has been that these ripe vintages tend to shut down hard and hibernate for a loong time…"
word_count: 183
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I think 18,19, and 20 will go the same way as 05, praised to the heavens by the critics and then a fair percentage purchased by wealthy Burgundy neophytes who believe the critics drinking windows, my experience has been that these ripe vintages tend to shut down hard and hibernate for a loong time…

I don’t think so! On the one hand, the press has been much more circumspect about 2018 than 2005 (which many commentators proclaimed as “the greatest of my career” etc), and I think the general line has been that this is an extreme vintage in which some very good wines were made—which seems to me quite a coherent assessment of the situation. On the other, winemaking is less extractive and oak better chosen today than was the case in 2005, and that, combined with more fully mature tannins, means that I think the 2018 wines are going to be suppler and more open throughout their lives than has been the case with the 2005s. (I might add that people are also a bit more circumspect with throwing tartaric acid around, which was always a less talked about factor in why ripe vintages shut down hard in the past: many 2005s were chaptalized and saw important tartaric adds).

It is also important not to lump 2018, 2019 and 2020 together. They are very different vintages. 2019 was a mid-September harvest, remember!
