---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166110
topic_slug: what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying
topic_title: "What 2018 Red Burgundies are you Buying?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110
post_id: 3042969
post_number: 105
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110/105
date: "2020-12-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "For example, I use William’s notes and words more than any other. Even he, when comparing 2017 to 2018, seems to have given higher scores in 2018 vs. 2017 to numerous of the wines I buy year in and year out (i.e. 94/96 v. 92/94 for d’Angerville Clos des Ducs)."
word_count: 306
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> For example, I use William’s notes and words more than any other. Even he, when comparing 2017 to 2018, seems to have given higher scores in 2018 vs. 2017 to numerous of the wines I buy year in and year out (i.e. 94/96 v. 92/94 for d’Angerville Clos des Ducs).

This is a very fair point! As a set, in retrospect, I think I somewhat underrated the 2017 reds. Having worked the harvest and seen the high yields in the vineyards, with potential alcohols in the high elevens and low twelves at harvest and rather overcast weather around harvest, I was a bit skeptical. Tasting from barrel a year later, I frequently found the wines a touch fluid and diffuse. Now, there *are* plenty of fluid and diffuse 2017 reds out there; but the top producers’ wines mostly took on additional depth with a second winter on the lees. And, revisiting from bottle, I have simply adored the wines’ suppleness and charm and definition. And at this stage, I have reviewed just shy of 2,000 2017s in bottle!

This experience has informed a number of reflections. The first is that, in Burgundy, sometimes the prettiest fruit doesn’t make the best wines. The second it how important it is to revisit the wines in bottle, something I do more and more systematically. The third is to question why it is that the more powerful wines tend to be those that get the highest scores. Rather, shouldn’t the highest scores go to the wines that we most want in our cellars? This isn’t just a Burgundian phenomenon, far from it—the ratings of TBA Riesling are the perfect example. But should 2017 Burgundies really be marked down because they are, in many cases, 30-40 year wines rather than 60-70 year wines? As a profession, this is a question wine writers really need to get to grips with, especially as, in northern European wine regions, power becomes easier and easier to achieve, and it is certainly front-and-center in my mind when I am tasting new vintages along the Côte these days.
