---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166110
topic_slug: what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying
topic_title: "What 2018 Red Burgundies are you Buying?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110
post_id: 3038580
post_number: 22
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110/22
date: "2020-12-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I am buying Wasenhaus! The best Burgundy your money can buy. And Made in Germany. William - How is 18 for whites?"
word_count: 280
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I am buying Wasenhaus! The best Burgundy your money can buy. And Made in Germany. William - How is 18 for whites?

2018 whites are defined by the high yields. That retarded ripening, despite the warm conditions, so alcohol levels are generally moderate (e.g. <2017). Acidities are a touch below average but more or less correct. What really differentiates the top wines from the rest is concentration: many 2018 whites are a bit soft, open-knit, fluid. Nature was so generous that people who generally crop high exceeded the AOC maximums, and those who are normally more restrained often attained them. The best producers made efforts to restrain their yields. And they did their classic press cycles, so the wines have a bit of extract. Some producers, by contrast, had so much fruit to process that they did extra short press cycles, resulting in very clear juice (no skin extract or solids), which exaggerates the perception of dilution. If you think back to the very high yielding great vintages of the past for white Burgundy such as 1979 and 1982, one of the real differences with 2018 (despite similar yields) is that today people have pneumatic presses than can work really quickly and extract almost nothing from the grapes. Back in the late 1970s, people were crushing the grapes and then pressing with vertical basket presses or vaslins, which took longer and resulted in a lot more extract to structure the wines. I think this is one of the reasons why there were more great 1982 white Burgundies than there are great 2018 white Burgundies. But we will see how they evolve. There are some very nice wines out there, including but not limited to those that I purchased. You just have to be selective - but what’s new about that!
