---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166110
topic_slug: what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying
topic_title: "What 2018 Red Burgundies are you Buying?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110
post_id: 3042924
post_number: 103
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/what-2018-red-burgundies-are-you-buying/166110/103
date: "2020-12-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Interesting and granular, as always. However the paradigm shift, in my post, is that more likely in the near future is the need for Burgundians to adjust for heat and dry conditions more often than wet and cool. Positive things for some issues, like disease, but more negative for other aspects of…"
word_count: 208
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Interesting and granular, as always. However the paradigm shift, in my post, is that more likely in the near future is the need for Burgundians to adjust for heat and dry conditions more often than wet and cool. Positive things for some issues, like disease, but more negative for other aspects of…

I do not deny that as a general observation, but with regards to the 2019 vintage in particular, you will note that all the communes in the data above received some rain in August! So it is not the case that some saw rain and others didn’t.

I agree, however, about the paradigm: if in the past, it was the producers who were able to ripen grapes in adverse conditions who succeeded the best; now it’s those who succeed in capturing freshness in warm conditions. And if that was the paradigm under discussion—rather than the notion that post-2017 Burgundy tastes inherently and irreversibly different from pre-2017 Burgundy—then I can warmly get behind it!

I think there has been just as big a “paradigm shift”, if you like, in consumer culture during the same period, by the way. If 2005 were to come along today, I think its quality would be interrogated a lot more vigorously (as should the quality of every vintage, in my opinion!) than was the case back in 2006-7. Ten years ago, the notion that Burgundy might get a bit riper would likely not have prompted anyone to ask who the “survivors” might be, to borrow your term!
