---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166392
topic_slug: tns-two-2017-white-burgs-william-kelley-got-it-right
topic_title: "TNs: Two 2017 White Burgs (William Kelley got it right!)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tns-two-2017-white-burgs-william-kelley-got-it-right/166392
post_id: 3046923
post_number: 6
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tns-two-2017-white-burgs-william-kelley-got-it-right/166392/6
date: "2020-12-13"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "…and that is just the regular Pouilly Fuissé. Try the Tetê de Cru tier. I’d say a pro just confirmed what previous amateurs said in that thread. William is a very gifted gentleman though and generous with his time and opinion. D’oh! It was the Clos des Prouges Tête de Cru. Grabbed the wrong wine in…"
word_count: 236
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:46+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> …and that is just the regular Pouilly Fuissé. Try the Tetê de Cru tier. I’d say a pro just confirmed what previous amateurs said in that thread. William is a very gifted gentleman though and generous with his time and opinion. D’oh! It was the Clos des Prouges Tête de Cru. Grabbed the wrong wine in…

Thanks, everyone!

I certainly believe in the potential of the Mâconnais. And, even if we might not like it, I think it’s important to be prepared to pay for it… One sad tendency I have seen in the Mâconnais and other less prestigious regions (e.g. Montagny, Mercurey, Rully etc) is for young winemakers to start out doing everything necessary for high quality; they are celebrated for it, yes, but their scores rapidly hit a glass ceiling and importers are mostly only prepared to pay so much for Mâcon—if prices rise, they can get the same AOCs for a lot less elsewhere. So, these producers who started with such promise let their yields creep up and pay a bit less attention - the wines are still good, but less ambitious - and the scores etc remain unchanged. If we want true excellence in the Mâconnais, on the one hand, the press needs to be prepared to score the wines the way they would if they were tasting them blind, in the company of high appellation Côte de Beaune whites; and on the other, consumers have to support excellence with their wallets.

Anyway, really glad you appreciated the bottle. Different in style to the rich, unctuous Ferret wines of yesteryear (have a bunch of 1983s in my cellar, thanks to this forum’s Eric Egan), but for me some of the best Pouilly-Fuissé being made today.
