---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166868
topic_slug: how-good-is-the-2005-burgundy-vintage
topic_title: "How good is the 2005 Burgundy  vintage"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/how-good-is-the-2005-burgundy-vintage/166868
post_id: 3061524
post_number: 45
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/how-good-is-the-2005-burgundy-vintage/166868/45
date: "2021-01-03"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Lots of interesting topics in there! 2005 did come in the middle of a shift in fashion back towards classicism, a part of which was a renewed appreciation for elegance and transparency over concentration and weight (though, as I mentioned above, I think '05 has both qualities in spades). That…"
word_count: 484
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:45+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Lots of interesting topics in there! 2005 did come in the middle of a shift in fashion back towards classicism, a part of which was a renewed appreciation for elegance and transparency over concentration and weight (though, as I mentioned above, I think '05 has both qualities in spades). That…

Now that is for sure. And one of the ironies of contemporary wine culture is that the people with the money generally don’t have the time, and the people with the time don’t have the money.

I think Lalou’s remark was more to the effect that time in the cellar can supply “ripeness” that wasn’t acquired by time on the vine, so that lean, angular, compact vintages will sweeten with time. So I think she would have had in mind years such as 1996, 1993, and, yes, 1980. And if, looking at more recent years, one were to argue that the best 2008s will need more time than the best 2007s or best 2009s, I think that would be right. To change regions, 2002 Bordeaux seem to me an example of the same phenomenon.

I’ve had some great experiences up and down the hierarchy in 1980 in the last twelve months, admittedly mainly at the top, but notably Roty’s Gevrey AOC, without lieu-dit designation, and for example Guillemot’s Serpentières and Henri Boillot’s Volnay AOC, comparatively modest Côte de Beaune bottlings in what is known as “a Côte de Nuits vintage”.

Next year, I’ll do an article on 1981, which is even more forgotten, and even more heterogenous than 1980, and it will be fascinating to see the results, going into tasting the wines with a very open mind, without any desire to champion a particular year but also with no intention of “marking down” the wines because “everyone knows it wasn’t a very good vintage”, which I think happens.

You’re right about provenance being an equalizer regarding 1982 reds in particular, as some are still delicious sur place (Gouges Clos des Porrets and Ponsot CdlR were lovely recently, which Pousse d’Or 60 Ouvrées was surprisingly pedestrian but no where near too old), but which are mostly extremely fragile. 1979 reds, especially from the Côte de Beaune, are also quite often fabulous, perfumed, texturally sumptuous wines when opened in the region, but not necessarily bottles I would be excited to drink after they have travelled 5,000 kilometers.

But to answer your question a bit more directly, if you were to say, can one find 1980s that are better than 1978s?, or 1981s that are better than 1985s?, I would answer “yes”, while still acknowledging the overall superiority of '85 and '78. And what a pity it would be to miss out on the modern day equivalents of those exceptions to the rule today! One of my motivation to start a “40 years on” retrospective series for TWA was to juxtapose contemporaneous commentary from all quarters with how the wines actually taste today, with a view to hopefully at least avoiding making the same journalistic mistakes twice, and this has been one of the more interesting lessons that the exercise has reaffirmed.
