---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166868
topic_slug: how-good-is-the-2005-burgundy-vintage
topic_title: "How good is the 2005 Burgundy  vintage"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/how-good-is-the-2005-burgundy-vintage/166868
post_id: 3061193
post_number: 39
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/how-good-is-the-2005-burgundy-vintage/166868/39
date: "2021-01-03"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Wish I had clipped the threads from the old board from the height of the '05 buying frenzy when many people wisely predicted, “You know, in 10 or 15 years these are going to be shut down tight and you’re all going to call them overrated”"
word_count: 286
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:45+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Wish I had clipped the threads from the old board from the height of the '05 buying frenzy when many people wisely predicted, “You know, in 10 or 15 years these are going to be shut down tight and you’re all going to call them overrated”

So the apologia was built into the plaudits?

I think we taste and scrutinize ripe vintages much more critically than was the case fifteen years ago—sometimes, indeed, too critically. I wonder how 2005 would be received today? Especially were it to have emerged in a context where—as was the case until a few days ago in the US—honestly labelling of alcohol levels was actually incentivized.

Several of the best red Burgundies I drank this year were from the 1980 vintage. On release, it was panned by the press—to the extent that there was a press—and shunned by the négociants. Forty years later, it looks as if the 1980 La Tâche might be the best of the decade, and I’m not convinced that the 1978 would surpass it side by side. Meanwhile, how did the celebrated 1976s fare?

Tasting Burgundy from barrel is a very tricky business, and as time passes, and the wines evolve, our tastes change too.

The problem is that vintage reputations become self-sustaining. How many people reading this have vastly more '05s in their cellar than '06s, '07s or '08s? To say nothing of '04s. Yet how many 2005s are as exciting to drink as Engel’s 2004s? But once a vintage is established as “great”, excuses are made, whereas the “weaker” vintages are seldom revisited and reappraised. I am all for forgetting age-worthy wines in which one has faith in the cellar, so these observations are made more in support of other lesser years than to disparage 2005, but at the end of the day, there is a lot to be said for buying some wine every year and not fixating unduly on vintage.
