---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 166907
topic_slug: classifying-farmer-fizz
topic_title: "Classifying farmer fizz"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/classifying-farmer-fizz/166907
post_id: 3060739
post_number: 71
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/classifying-farmer-fizz/166907/71
date: "2021-01-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 220
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:45+00:00"
---

I tend to think that Champagne’s big houses lend themselves better to some sort of hierarchical classification than the growers. Producers such as, to pick three examples, Selosse, Lassaigne and Prévost have such strong individual styles that they will necessarily evoke strong personal responses. Indeed, the luxury that these small producers have is to be able to produce intensely characterful, idiosyncratic, even divisive wines, which find a very enthusiastic following even if they’re too extreme for many consumers. Selosse, for example, is quite explicit about doing this. One drinker might love the richness and texture and biologically aged patina of Selosse and Prévost, while finding Lassaigne too incisive and austere; another might love the precision of Lassaigne’s wines and find Selosse’s too fleshy and vinous. This gets us into questions about whether quality is separable from personal taste. The reality is that recognition as a “high quality producer” is simply the result of a consensus between people sharing the same personal tastes. And I think in the case of some of the most well-known growers cited in this thread, there is unlikely to be enough of a consensus of this kind to arrive at any kind of widely accepted classification. Just look at how Selosse is rated in the Stevenson & Avellan Champagne book vs. TWA.
