---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 167169
topic_slug: getting-ready-for-pouilly-fuisse
topic_title: "Getting ready for Pouilly-Fuissé"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/getting-ready-for-pouilly-fuisse/167169
post_id: 3065976
post_number: 4
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/getting-ready-for-pouilly-fuisse/167169/4
date: "2021-01-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Honestly, I would be surprised, given that the US is the largest export market for these wines by a margin <…> You might be right. Time will tell. But I think that for the more general public, Pouilly-Fuissé is better known than Montagny. I also think that for a lot of consumers, if they see a 1er…"
word_count: 372
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:28+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Honestly, I would be surprised, given that the US is the largest export market for these wines by a margin <…> You might be right. Time will tell. But I think that for the more general public, Pouilly-Fuissé is better known than Montagny. I also think that for a lot of consumers, if they see a 1er…

Well, 70% of Pouilly-Fuissé is bottled by the Beaune négociants and goes into distribution in a context where I think price pressure is real, but as you say, we will see!

But if it brings more attention to the appellation, that’s of course a great thing.

Some producers to look at…

Guffens-Heynen - for me the best producer in the Mâconnais, brilliant, emotion-inducing wines that age very well Jules Desjourneys - a newer label, made by Fabien Duperray who distributes the likes of Coche, Ente in France, very sophisticated winemaking, fruit sourced from Domaine Thibert as I understand it Cornin and Rontets you both have on your list - great producers (I think Rontets, being high altitude, will be excluded from the 1er cru) Héritiers Lafon and Chagnoleau (Franz is married to Caroline Gon who makes the Lafon wines) are both very nice in a leaner, more minimalist aesthetic Denis Jeandeau, especially his cuvée Sécret Mineral is also a fine-boned, elegant style Denogent in a richer, more textural, long-élevage style Valette in a wilder, natural style that is quite (increasingly) extreme J.A. Ferret - Jadot owned for a while, but deserves to be taken more seriously as they are some of the best wines in the AOC and made sur place with great attention by their own winemaker Audrey Braccini. Daniel Barraud - whose best wine from lieu-dit En Bulands will be excluded from the 1er cru Those are a few of my favorites. I have over 100 bottles of Guffens in my own cellar, so my money is where my mouth is.

It’s worth noting that the 1er cru limits seem to have been determined more with a view to avoiding setting a precedent which would enable people in the Côte d’Or to petition for even more 1ers crus than with a view to which sites are actually the best. It’s the warmest, ripest, more southerly exposed sites that have been classified as 1er cru, with several very fine high altitude or differently exposed climats being missed out. I wrote to the INAO about this, as did many others, but I don’t think any important changes were made. But perhaps someone can correct me.
