---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 167509
topic_slug: poll-top-vintage-for-red-bordeaux-1980-1999
topic_title: "POLL: Top vintage for red Bordeaux 1980 - 1999"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/poll-top-vintage-for-red-bordeaux-1980-1999/167509
post_id: 3074988
post_number: 25
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/poll-top-vintage-for-red-bordeaux-1980-1999/167509/25
date: "2021-01-19"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "The highs of 1982 are extraordinary, but I give the edge to 1989 and 1990 because there are several top chateaux that I think were making better wine by the end of the decade than were in 1982, such as Pichon Baron, Montrose, and Leoville-Poyferre. I’ve also had more excellent inexpensive 1989s and…"
word_count: 332
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> The highs of 1982 are extraordinary, but I give the edge to 1989 and 1990 because there are several top chateaux that I think were making better wine by the end of the decade than were in 1982, such as Pichon Baron, Montrose, and Leoville-Poyferre. I’ve also had more excellent inexpensive 1989s and…

The problem with this line of argument is that there are also plenty of important properties than didn’t match what they achieved in 1982 in either 1989 or 1990. For a start, none of the Pauillac first growths matched their 1982s in either 1989 or 1990, and in some cases notably underperformed in those years. Nor did Ducru Beaucaillou (even allowing for the TCA issues), nor did Gruaud Larose, nor did Pichon Lalande, nor did Talbot, nor did Beychevelle… There are other more contentious calls: how one comes down on 1982 vs 1990 Léoville-Las Cases (I prefer the '90) will depend a lot on one’s palate, as will 1982 vs 1989 La Mission Haut Brion (I prefer the '82). But all this is to say that I am not sure the admittedly superb performances of Pichon Baron, Montrose and Léoville-Poyferré in 1989 and 1990 cancel out the sub-par—or sometimes just less stellar—performances of some estates that produced stunning 1982s.

I think there would also be a very strong case to be made for 1982 just based on the heights of the highs. If you put a left bank top-five of La Mission Haut Brion, Latour, Pichon Lalande, Mouton and La Tour Haut Brion up against a top-five from 1989 (which I suppose might be Haut Brion, La Mission Haut Brion, Lynch Bages, Pichon Baron and Montrose), or a top-five from 1990 (which I guess the consensus would say would include Margaux (even if I have not loved this wine lately), Montrose, Haut Brion, Pichon Baron and perhaps Lafite), I would not have a hard time choosing the 1982s (though I would love to put this to the test over lunch some day if anyone is tempted). And then, when one includes the right bank, there is the phenomenon that is 1982 Lafleur, for me one of the best wines made in Bordeaux since 1945, and which alone could almost carry the vintage…
