---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 168208
topic_slug: a-more-contemporary-designed-wine-bottle-basket-any-reccs
topic_title: "A more 'contemporary' designed wine bottle basket - any reccs?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/a-more-contemporary-designed-wine-bottle-basket-any-reccs/168208
post_id: 3097600
post_number: 62
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/a-more-contemporary-designed-wine-bottle-basket-any-reccs/168208/62
date: "2021-02-07"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "For a wine basket, how are you opening it? Does the wine not automatically spill out once you open a cork? If there is limited head space vertically, I imagine opening a bottle at an angle would mean spillage? Can you open a new bottle without any spilling at an angle? Also for a tough cork, would…"
word_count: 263
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> For a wine basket, how are you opening it? Does the wine not automatically spill out once you open a cork? If there is limited head space vertically, I imagine opening a bottle at an angle would mean spillage? Can you open a new bottle without any spilling at an angle? Also for a tough cork, would…

You open the bottle in the basket, and you can adjust the angle of the bottle so that the wine won’t spill: the fuller the bottle’s fill, the more acute the angle needs to be, so I put a cork or two in the basket to prop up the bottle a bit. The advantages of the basket really come with old wines that have thrown a deposit, and such wines typically have a bit of ullage meaning that this isn’t much of an issue.

Then, to pour, you hold the handle of the basket and pour slowly. The inertia of the bottle seems to be sufficient to stop any sudden movements that would disturb sediment - I can go round the table, pouring for everyone, without the wine getting shaken up. The advantage of the old fashioned looking baskets is that the handle makes this easy, and also that the bottle doesn’t have much opportunity to slip out (no broken decanters, etc).

Here are some bottles in baskets, where the Mugneret and Ponsot had such high fills that they both have a cork in the basket to adjust the angle of the bottle: [William Kelley on Instagram: "When I discovered that a great friend and I share a birthday, his vintage suggested this year’s theme: 1980 is a somewhat forgotten year that can deliver great surprises. They’re wines from another moment in Burgundy’s history, far removed from those of today; and with plenty of secrets to be deciphered. Drinking beautifully today..."](https://www.instagram.com/p/CEsIJciHlWG/)
