---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 168700
topic_slug: wines-naturalistic-fallacy
topic_title: "Wine's naturalistic fallacy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700
post_id: 3110160
post_number: 63
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700/63
date: "2021-02-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I don’t trick or deceive others. Implying that “naturalistic” process is a more subtle version of artifice, can only be argued regarding the marketing of wine. As opposed to the making of wine. Every winemaker at the beginning of vintage, is like a downhill skier atop the hill. You’re going down…"
word_count: 276
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I don’t trick or deceive others. Implying that “naturalistic” process is a more subtle version of artifice, can only be argued regarding the marketing of wine. As opposed to the making of wine. Every winemaker at the beginning of vintage, is like a downhill skier atop the hill. You’re going down…

I think you might not be reading the words “artifice” and “deception” in the sense that I intended them. I used “artifice” in the sense that everything not occurring in nature is “artificial”, the product of art/agency; and “deception” in the sense that, for example, a perspective drawing creates the deceptive perception of depth on a flat page. There was no pejorative implication.

One of the stimuli to write this essay was a discussion with a winemaker who’s my age and whom I admire a lot. He told me that he wanted his wines to taste “raw” (“cru”) and totally unprocessed in the way that sushi is “raw” (he used this as his rationale for doing very short macerations for his red wines). Yet the analogy struck me as only superficially compelling, because in reality, sushi is about much more than the best products presented with the least artifice: the fish is raw, yes, but the best Japanese sushi chefs dry age the fish, and technique from the cooking and (intense, if you taste it before preparation) seasoning of the rice, cutting the fish, and so on, is actually hugely artful and deliberate. The best sushi gives the illusion of being artless, precisely because it’s so incredibly finessed at every stage.

I very much like you skiing analogy, however, as it concedes more ground to the site, something that I don’t think I adequately integrated into the essay. But, I will have another attempt in part two. A friend got at something similar recently with a sailing analogy - wind and currents, but also a destination and intention - which I thought worked well.
