---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 168700
topic_slug: wines-naturalistic-fallacy
topic_title: "Wine's naturalistic fallacy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700
post_id: 3111628
post_number: 121
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700/121
date: "2021-02-26"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Seems like you’ve proved that the mis-appropriation of the phrase “gout de terroir” is a recent phenomenon, not that the assignation of a unique set of sensory attributes to the agricultural produce of a certain piece of land is a new phenomenon. I imagine that people have been trying to produce…"
word_count: 223
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Seems like you’ve proved that the mis-appropriation of the phrase “gout de terroir” is a recent phenomenon, not that the assignation of a unique set of sensory attributes to the agricultural produce of a certain piece of land is a new phenomenon. I imagine that people have been trying to produce…

Well, I think what this illustrates is how the impulses to which you advert came to be encapsulated in the repurposed one-word concept of “terroir”, and quite recently at that. Such narratives have certainly always existed in competition with the more universalized concept of the “brand” (even if they were not so clearly articulated), which—whether you call it Maison or Château or Marque—historically dominated most of French wine production, until other regions borrowed the “terroir” discourse from Burgundy, even more recently. But even Clos Vougeot and Chambertin are a brand as well as a place. In many ways, ironically enough, the notion of terroir per se actually represents not an alternative to “the brand” but in fact an integration of the brand into the site. In France, there are a lot of great “terres à vignes” (sites for growing vines) that are not so-called great “terroirs”. I.e. there are places where you can make “grand cru quality” wines that are not grands crus. Tonight I drank a Dureuil-Janthial Rully that tasted better than all but a handful of Puligny-Montrachet Premiers Crus from the same vintage. Isn’t a great terroir, then, a great terre à vignes *fused* with a great brand? But here I’m anticipating some of the themes of part two of this essay.
