---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 168700
topic_slug: wines-naturalistic-fallacy
topic_title: "Wine's naturalistic fallacy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700
post_id: 3109541
post_number: 10
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700/10
date: "2021-02-23"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Oh, it’s a beautiful piece, William. I think about this question most often when I’ve been at certain biodynamic places like Pearl Morissette in Ontario. Lots of attention to making some very unique wines, and yet (for me) their idiosyncrasies in flavors and mouthfeel are somewhat of a roller…"
word_count: 231
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Oh, it’s a beautiful piece, William. I think about this question most often when I’ve been at certain biodynamic places like Pearl Morissette in Ontario. Lots of attention to making some very unique wines, and yet (for me) their idiosyncrasies in flavors and mouthfeel are somewhat of a roller…

Thank you! I have gone through the same process of reflection, especially in the course of getting to know, and coming to love, Selosse’s very idiosyncratic Champagnes.

I think one’s point of entry into a region (or, let’s say, a genre, to borrow from Rodrigo’s post) is immensely important. Each wine we taste in a sense alters our palate, by expanding our frame of reference, but those formative encounters can be the most defining. If, to continue with the Champagne example, one starts out with tank fermented, reductive, quite high-dosage Champagne, the shock of coming to Selosse is going to be so huge as to be, for some, insurmountable. Whereas if one comes to Selosse via old Champagne from the 1950s, serious white Burgundy, or the wines of Jerez and even the Jura, they are going to be a lot more, in a sense, accessible. One of the things that makes Selosse so interesting is the way he has transcended categories and gotten away with it, but it is remarkable the extent to which our wine culture considers some practices to be appropriate in some regions and not others. I have friends who love classical Rioja but criticize Ridge Monte Bello for the American oak signature, for example. But what would they have said in late 19th-/early 20th-century Haro when Rioja was being invented?
