---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 168700
topic_slug: wines-naturalistic-fallacy
topic_title: "Wine's naturalistic fallacy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700
post_id: 3110147
post_number: 60
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wines-naturalistic-fallacy/168700/60
date: "2021-02-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "William, first, I greatly enjoyed your essay, and find it an argument that shouldn’t get much disagreement, in a general sense. I’m only following the discussion into some nooks and crannies. Your first paragraph describes more what we’ve come to agree is the “standard” for certain regions; if…"
word_count: 276
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:44+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> William, first, I greatly enjoyed your essay, and find it an argument that shouldn’t get much disagreement, in a general sense. I’m only following the discussion into some nooks and crannies. Your first paragraph describes more what we’ve come to agree is the “standard” for certain regions; if…

Don’t worry, that’s the spirit in which I took your comments, and I’m very happy to exchange!

It’s interesting how close changes like that evoked above actually came to happening (of course, radical changes have actually happened, too). René Lafon in an interview once said that, back in the day (I guess in the 1960s) he had to convince tonnellerie Damy in Meursault to start making 228-liter barrels again, so many people had gone over to using tanks or foudres!

Picking those three producers was slightly tricky of me, because to my mind the Mugneret sisters make Vosne-styled Nuits and Mugnier makes Chambolle-styled Nuits, whereas Chevillon, which you identify as your least favorite of the three, makes the most obviously “Nuits” Nuits (after all, they are based there and even buy their barrels from Sirugue, a cooper actually based in Nuits). Mugnier’s Marechale is, to me, a great example, because it is both obviously different from his Chambolle wines and still very obviously a Mugnier wine. And to me, the Mugneret-Gibourg style is just as pronounced as Chevillon’s: after all, the new oak can be quite prominent young (that creamy, spicy overlay from Tonneleries Rousseau and François Frères), though it integrates beautifully over time (M-G is my largest red Burgundy holding, so don’t interpret this as a criticism). But, and this gets back to the real point of the article, one taster’s transparency is often another’s makeup, and it is ultimately more useful to talk about more or less subjectively compelling aesthetics when one is dealing with producers operating at this level.
