---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 170792
topic_slug: tn-2019-chateau-thivin-brouilly-reverdon-france-burgundy-beaujolais-brouilly
topic_title: "TN: 2019 Château Thivin Brouilly Reverdon (France, Burgundy, Beaujolais, Brouilly)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2019-chateau-thivin-brouilly-reverdon-france-burgundy-beaujolais-brouilly/170792
post_id: 3166747
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2019-chateau-thivin-brouilly-reverdon-france-burgundy-beaujolais-brouilly/170792/19
date: "2021-05-21"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I think 2011 was in the end a bit more along the lines of 2017 and 2019: that’s to say, a sunny vintage that didn’t efface the region’s classic profile. Fully agree. I don’t understand the praise 2011 gets every now and then - in many vertical tastings it has come across as very lush and solar…"
word_count: 276
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:43+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I think 2011 was in the end a bit more along the lines of 2017 and 2019: that’s to say, a sunny vintage that didn’t efface the region’s classic profile. Fully agree. I don’t understand the praise 2011 gets every now and then - in many vertical tastings it has come across as very lush and solar…

Oh, well, I do like the 2011s, I have to say. But I do think that the Beaujolais has a problem in so far as every time there is a riper, higher-pH vintage, the wines taste great during élevage and just after bottling but then loose their fruit faster than one might have anticipated in bottle. I don’t think this is inherent to the sites of the cépage—I’ve had enough great old Beaujolais, including from very ripe years, to feel quite confident about that—but more to do with bottling practices plus comparatively poor quality corks. If you think about the price per hectoliter for Chiroubles I cited above, it makes sense. When the value of the wine is 2.10 EUR per liter, it makes little sense to spend 100,000 EUR on a state of the art bottling line and 80 cents per cork for very good corks. So most of the regions wines are bottled by mobile bottling lines, which means they are pumped and filtered and experience a thermic shock (I have seen bottling lines where the wine is warmed by being passed through a copper tube heated by a naked flame). And then the corks are not especially good quality. Over the long haul, the lower pH, more marginally ripe vintages tend to stand up to this sort of treatment better than the riper years. At least, that is the conclusion I have been coming to lately. Obviously, producers such as Thivin that belong in the region’s 1% are investing in quite good corks, etc, and hence their wines have a track record of aging gracefully.
