---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 171926
topic_slug: tn-2017-roblet-monnot-volnay-saint-francois
topic_title: "TN: 2017 Roblet-Monnot Volnay Saint-Francois"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2017-roblet-monnot-volnay-saint-francois/171926
post_id: 3194730
post_number: 7
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-2017-roblet-monnot-volnay-saint-francois/171926/7
date: "2021-07-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Tremblay but less new oak. Sold! Just got 432 email offers for Roblet-Monnot At double the price"
word_count: 355
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Tremblay but less new oak. Sold! Just got 432 email offers for Roblet-Monnot At double the price

The Burgundy market corrects fast these days…

Pascal Roblet has been working well for a long time though. Here’s my blurb from my 2019 vintage report:
> My tasting with Pascal Roblet was one of my most stimulating visits on the Côte de Beaune this year, so it is with some consternation that I see that this nine-hectare domaine, based in Bligny-lès-Beaune, hasn’t been covered in these pages for over a decade. Certified organic, Roblet is a viticultural pioneer: in 2002, just two years after Lalou Bize-Leroy, he stopped “rognage” (i.e. trimming) of his vines to avoid cutting their apical shoots; in his holdings in the Hautes-Côtes, where lower planting densities and higher-trained vines permit it, he works in permaculture. Once considered eccentric—and indeed still at odds with the dominant approach to viticulture, which sometimes seems to owe more to 18th-century geometric garden design than to any understanding of vines’ physiology—Burgundy has at last evolved enough for such initiatives to be thought avant grade (even if at this address they have been in place for the better part of two decades).> If work in the vineyards is forward-thinking, winemaking is founded on very traditional principles: long cuvaisons and long élevage. Destemming or not, depending on the vintage and cuvée, Roblet works only with pigeage, doing nothing for the first two weeks of cuvaison and punching down for the following two. In the cellar, élevage lasts between 18 and 24 months, and the presence of new oak these days is minimal—one of the most notable evolutions since this domaine was last reviewed in The Wine Advocate—with Roblet increasingly favoring 400-liter barrels in lieu of 228-liter pièces. The results are superb: deep, concentrated and complex wines, with considerable aging potential, built around beautifully powdery tannins. Quite why this high-quality domaine languishes in comparative obscurity escapes me; but when the wines are this good, it is only a matter of time until people start paying attention, so I encourage readers to acquaint themselves with Domaine Roblet-Monnot while they still can.
