---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 171921
topic_slug: smoky-wines-terroir-vs-winemaking
topic_title: "\"Smoky wines\" - terroir vs. winemaking"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/smoky-wines-terroir-vs-winemaking/171921
post_id: 3195140
post_number: 41
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/smoky-wines-terroir-vs-winemaking/171921/41
date: "2021-07-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "…and then rewind further, back to when wines were sold in barrel, and new oak was the norm again… A complicated business, this, and there is no one “traditional” era to reach back to, just a long history of evolution. Interesting, William. Was this just the case in Bordeaux? I can’t imagine this…"
word_count: 228
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> …and then rewind further, back to when wines were sold in barrel, and new oak was the norm again… A complicated business, this, and there is no one “traditional” era to reach back to, just a long history of evolution. Interesting, William. Was this just the case in Bordeaux? I can’t imagine this…

I am not too well versed in the economic history of German winemaking, so I’m not sure what sort of vessels those wines were sold in before selling wine in bottles became widespread in the 19th century. I would guess they were racked out of fuder into barrels for transport. As for Piemonte, we are not really talking about a “long tradition of winemaking”, as it was only in the 19th century that they figured out how to make dry wines! But there, the wines were sold in casks and demi-johns before bottling became widespread. In the Loire, wines were also sold in barrel. In at least the case of the Beaujolais, foudres are quite a recent phenomenon, introduced in the early 20th century when the Alsace brewing industry modernized and got rid of lots of wooden foudres; I am not sure exactly how far they go back in the Loire or the Rhône. In Châteauneuf, Henri Bonneau, about as good a guide to what people might have been doing 100 years ago as any, used predominantly 60 gallon barrels.

If you think about it, unless you are going to bottle the wine at the estate, you need to either make it in, or transfer it into, some sort of portable vessel; and for most of history, going way back, that vessel has been a barrel.
