---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 171921
topic_slug: smoky-wines-terroir-vs-winemaking
topic_title: "\"Smoky wines\" - terroir vs. winemaking"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/smoky-wines-terroir-vs-winemaking/171921
post_id: 3195173
post_number: 45
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/smoky-wines-terroir-vs-winemaking/171921/45
date: "2021-07-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I am not too well versed in the economic history of German winemaking, so I’m not sure what sort of vessels those wines were sold in before selling wine in bottles became widespread in the 19th century. I would guess they were racked out of fuder into barrels for transport. As for Piemonte, we are…"
word_count: 227
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I am not too well versed in the economic history of German winemaking, so I’m not sure what sort of vessels those wines were sold in before selling wine in bottles became widespread in the 19th century. I would guess they were racked out of fuder into barrels for transport. As for Piemonte, we are…

On the contrary, most villages in Burgundy had multiple coopers and it’s not uncommon to encounter domaines which have their origins in a cooper-turned-winemaker, e.g. Roty in Gevrey-Chambertin. Bordeaux château and Champagne houses had their own in-house coopers. I don’t know what your sources are, but the English market used to request new Baltic oak barrels and that was what was used at the first growths in the 19th and into the 20th century, we good into that in a thread with Jeff Leve a while back, where I provided some references, if you want to go into that.

Understanding of hygiene was obviously not scientifically grounded until Pasteur, but I think it would be a mistake to assume that people kept on making the same mistake over and over again. Sulfur matches were used from the 17th century, and early 19th-century texts on winemaking e.g. Chaptal are very particular about sanitation. So I think the notion that people were until recently just knocking back vinegar, not knowing any better, is likely mistaken. I am sure barrels were indeed reused within the region, but transporting empty barrels back to e.g. Burgundy overland from overseas markets is not something that was practical, and shipping going to and from Bordeaux had more valuable cargo to carry than recycled barrels.
