---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172063
topic_slug: bizarre-bizot
topic_title: "Bizarre Bizot"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bizarre-bizot/172063
post_id: 3197868
post_number: 15
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bizarre-bizot/172063/15
date: "2021-07-15"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I’m with you here. Not that I don’t think Ryan is mis-stating his impressions, but Bizot has never struck me as an oaky producer. I also don’t think there would be a huge craze for a Burgundy producer that was showing heavy signs of new oak. (Perrot-Minot would never have changed his style if that…"
word_count: 225
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I’m with you here. Not that I don’t think Ryan is mis-stating his impressions, but Bizot has never struck me as an oaky producer. I also don’t think there would be a huge craze for a Burgundy producer that was showing heavy signs of new oak. (Perrot-Minot would never have changed his style if that…

I would look for it in the clove note that inflects the whole-cluster cinnamon, as well as a lovely orange rind/bergamot quality that the best François Frères and a few other coopers (Bizot, IIRC, uses Rousseau) can impart, plus some back-end vanillin; and then to the wine’s vibrant hues and an element of their textural sumptuousness. Note that this is in no way intended as a criticism!

It’s obviously very difficult to reverse engineer wines like this, especially when they’re so seamlessly put together and when the various components are synergistic. But I think the helpful heuristic is to try to imagine how wines made with the same vinification would taste in older barrels. Obviously working with very different base material, one can maybe get a sense of that in tasting Bizot-alumnus Mark Soyard’s reds, for example. And it’s helpful also to get away from the idea of new oak as something “added” to a wine: whether a wine is barreled down in new or older barrels isn’t an inflection point in the wine’s evolution, it’s a crossroads: the two paths diverge, but both take the wine to a new destination, modulating every aspect of it. This is why I try to avoid talking about “neutral barrels” these days: no container is neutral.
