---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172033
topic_slug: parker-green-wines-flag
topic_title: "Parker: Green Wines Flag"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/parker-green-wines-flag/172033
post_id: 3197601
post_number: 22
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/parker-green-wines-flag/172033/22
date: "2021-07-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "As William made clear, at this point, other than registering those that are certified, they are basing this on reviewers’ knowledge of the vineyards they review. This is bound to create obvious lacunae in that even well-known vineyards that, for one reason or another, don’t get noticed, will be…"
word_count: 238
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> As William made clear, at this point, other than registering those that are certified, they are basing this on reviewers’ knowledge of the vineyards they review. This is bound to create obvious lacunae in that even well-known vineyards that, for one reason or another, don’t get noticed, will be…

You’re right, Jonathan: as new reviews are added to the database, they will be qualified with the certification, if applicable, for that particular wine (in Burgundy, for example, some certified organic wineries make wines from purchased uncertified fruit, so I say particular wine rather than winery). So I think that, a year from now, we will be pretty up to date with current releases. For the most part, it is not really practical to go back through all 450,000 wines in our database and add this data to every tasting note, but from now on, these filters will be added to all reviews where applicable.

The “eco distinction” award, by contrast, is really a special nomination to just a handful of wineries worldwide, at the discretion of the reviewer for those regions. It is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the world’s meritorious wineries, just some that seemed worthy of special mention. And every year, there will be new nominations. So these two initiatives are really quite discreet: the one, aimed at adding information to our database as to whether a wine is certified organic or biodynamic; the other, to give some special recognition every year to wineries who are outstanding in this regard.

It’s the result of the better part of a year’s internal discussion and indeed debate, and we are hopeful that it will be a positive thing.
