---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172163
topic_slug: stephen-tanzer-becomes-critic-emeritus-at-vinous
topic_title: "Stephen Tanzer becomes Critic Emeritus at Vinous..."
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/stephen-tanzer-becomes-critic-emeritus-at-vinous/172163
post_id: 3203642
post_number: 22
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/stephen-tanzer-becomes-critic-emeritus-at-vinous/172163/22
date: "2021-07-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Dear William, I pay lots of money to get hold of the subscription like VINOUS or BURGHOUND or Wine Advocate. I had all three. I subscribed because I wanted to find notes on what interests me (BURGUNDY that is). You yourself published a vertical on DUROCHE’s Latricières recently. It is such articles…"
word_count: 264
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Dear William, I pay lots of money to get hold of the subscription like VINOUS or BURGHOUND or Wine Advocate. I had all three. I subscribed because I wanted to find notes on what interests me (BURGUNDY that is). You yourself published a vertical on DUROCHE’s Latricières recently. It is such articles…

I’m sorry Johan, but given that Neal and I at Vinous and TWA respectively publish as many Burgundy reviews as Allen, for example, I fail to understand how—apparently because we happen to have colleagues that cover other regions?—we are less “specialized”? Speaking personally, I spend six months a year in Burgundy, soon to be all the year, and review over 4,000 Burgundies per year. Just this year, I’ve published 1,700 reviews of the 2019 vintage, a historic retrospective of the 1980 vintage, reviews of 2018s from bottle, almost 100 reviews of older wines back to 1919, the vertical with Duroché to which you allude, over 300 reviews of wines from less famous regions such as the Chalonnaise, Hautes-Côtes (including several producers never reviewed before, including new domaines), and a vertical with Dureuil Janthial back to Vincent’s first vintage. In the coming weeks, I have reports on Chablis, the Mâconnais and Beaujolais, as well as vertical with Thomas Bouley, Jean-Marc Vincent and Bruno Lorenzon. Later this year, we’ll have a vertical of Lamy’s Haut Denisté wines and of Leroy’s Beaux Monts.

Am I to understand that, because my colleagues happen to review other regions, that this does not constitute in depth or specialist Burgundy coverage?

The reality of publishing on a weekly basis is that the articles you might want to read do not always stay on the homepage for very long, but there is not an obvious solution to that. The solution is to dig just a bit deeper into the site.
