---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172174
topic_slug: help-me-understand-a-wine-critic-allen-meadows-burghound
topic_title: "Help Me Understand A Wine Critic: Allen Meadows (Burghound)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/help-me-understand-a-wine-critic-allen-meadows-burghound/172174
post_id: 3204101
post_number: 22
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/help-me-understand-a-wine-critic-allen-meadows-burghound/172174/22
date: "2021-07-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "No one else is publishing notes on older Burgundies to any great degree, and this is regrettable. Tanzer did a few on Vinous some years ago, but that is over. William Kelley does some on Up From the Cellar on the WA, but they do not appear very frequently. John Gilman had so many great…"
word_count: 203
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> No one else is publishing notes on older Burgundies to any great degree, and this is regrettable. Tanzer did a few on Vinous some years ago, but that is over. William Kelley does some on Up From the Cellar on the WA, but they do not appear very frequently. John Gilman had so many great…

I definitely hear what you’re saying. Speaking personally, I try to get to 100 tasting notes before I publish a batch as an “Up From the Cellar” report, which means, even at my no doubt excessive rate of consumption, that it is a twice or three times per year affair. I’m also trying to do more verticals, and not just of “trophy” Burgundies, fun though such things are to write. Realistically though, as David points out, doing a “10 years on” tasting that is in any sense comprehensive is going to depend on getting samples from producers. And my experience is that everyone loves disinterested criticism when the scores are good; not so much when they are critical (unless a lot of time has elapsed: hence why I started doing a 40 year retrospective every year). So it would not necessarily be a format conducive to especially hard hitting commentary. Perhaps a more general annual recap on “how recent vintages are showing today” would be an interesting exercise, though.

Having said that, looking at cellar tracker, apparently in 2017 I have 92 different Burgundies… so I could actually do a quite decent “in house” ten years on horizontal in due course
