---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172580
topic_slug: why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules
topic_title: "Why I (really, really) don't like wax capsules"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580
post_id: 3213341
post_number: 107
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580/107
date: "2021-08-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "While slightly off-topic (though I assume the implication is that wax is unrelated to oxidation), I have to give extra thanks to William for his multiple posts about premature oxidation. Especially the last one (post 103)! This is the clearest, most complete, and fact-based explanation for what…"
word_count: 267
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> While slightly off-topic (though I assume the implication is that wax is unrelated to oxidation), I have to give extra thanks to William for his multiple posts about premature oxidation. Especially the last one (post 103)! This is the clearest, most complete, and fact-based explanation for what…

Thanks!

I have touched on the subject at reasonable length in print when discussing particular producers. For example, in my feature on Leflaive’s Chevalier-Montrachet, I discussed the particular issues at that address (moving the wine from one cellar to another across the village in barrels during the summer; attempting to harvest according to the biodynamic calendar [notably in 2006]; low sulfur; and then, as ever, variable corks). More recently, I described the pressing practices chez Dureuil-Janthial that I outlined above. I have contemplated writing a full feature-length piece, a I do think the phenomenon is at this stage largely understood; and even if it is complex and multifactorial, handwringing to the effect that it’s a mystery is mostly disingenuous. But a number of producers I hoped to quote on the subject declined to participate on the record, which put me off, and I have not lack of other subjects to keep me occupied!

It does interest me personally, though, since I make white wine in California and will soon make a bit in Burgundy. While I like the aging dynamics of wines under high quality natural cork, and also suspect that there are other things in cork (tannins, lactones etc) that can represent a positive endogenous contribution to the wine’s profile over time (i.e., a cork is more than just a closure), I am also acutely aware of all the myriad faults and flaws that can derive from cork, too, as well as flagrant variations in OTR within a batch of corks. It’s not an easy decision to make.
