---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172580
topic_slug: why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules
topic_title: "Why I (really, really) don't like wax capsules"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580
post_id: 3211993
post_number: 71
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580/71
date: "2021-08-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Maybe the producers that have avoided premox all these years have been paying extra to have their corks treated with pixie dust? How numerous are they? I can think of at best three or four in Burgundy. And they work with the best corks money can buy, use very high levels of free SO2, and in some…"
word_count: 293
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Maybe the producers that have avoided premox all these years have been paying extra to have their corks treated with pixie dust? How numerous are they? I can think of at best three or four in Burgundy. And they work with the best corks money can buy, use very high levels of free SO2, and in some…

I think you’ve misunderstood my point. What happened was that the wines became more fragile (mostly due to winemaking choices, I agree, and I’ve written about what the changes were and when they happened in print) from the mid-1990s, thereby throwing variance in closure oxygen transmission rate (OTR) into heightened relief. Simultaneously, cork quality hit a nadir. So what with very robust wines of the '70s and '80s expressed as comparatively minor bottle variation became five bottles oxidized, three advanced, and four correct out of a case of 12.

Now, I would be the first to lament the winemaking changes that made the wines more fragile; and I tend to think that those winemaking changes, in addition to making more fragile wines, also made less interesting wines than what came before (at the time, they were described as “more elegant”). But it would be obtuse to deny that closure OTR is critical as to whether wines *actually oxidize or not* . Otherwise, DIAM and screw cap wouldn’t prevent oxidation as demonstrably as they do. After all, even an immensely fragile wine, stored under an impermeable screw cap, won’t oxidize as long as the seal holds. And to give you an idea of just how big the variations we’re dealing with are, we are talking about a factor of 50 difference between the lowest and highest OTR in a batch of expensive corks. That’s huge.

As for Chablis, I think they have fared better than the Côte de Beaune largely to do with less use oak: élevage is less oxidative there, and nor was the trend towards lower free sulfur such a thing as it was in the Côte de Beaune. But premox is still endemic in Chablis.
