---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172567
topic_slug: william-kelleys-2019-chablis-report
topic_title: "William Kelley's 2019 Chablis Report"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelleys-2019-chablis-report/172567
post_id: 3210786
post_number: 2
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelleys-2019-chablis-report/172567/2
date: "2021-08-06"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Surprised no one has posted here yet about this. Posted earlier today on robertparker.com France, Burgundy: Chablis 2019 and Beyond “On the one hand, the Chablis that we knew is becoming less familiar. But on the other, perhaps we are learning more about its true potential.” Some really great…"
word_count: 242
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Surprised no one has posted here yet about this. Posted earlier today on robertparker.com France, Burgundy: Chablis 2019 and Beyond “On the one hand, the Chablis that we knew is becoming less familiar. But on the other, perhaps we are learning more about its true potential.” Some really great…

Thanks, Lucas!

I found 2019 a particularly interesting vintage to review in Chablis. One tries to approach a vintage without *a priori* , but I confess that, having not been an immense fan of the 2015 Chablis vintage—with some exceptions—I was a bit skeptical about the 2019s. However, it appears that acids concentrated along with sugars at the end of the season, and the 2019 Chablis vintage is simultaneously atypically concentrated but very incisive and structured, and also aromatically quite classically Chablisien. So it’s interesting. For example, tasting the top Fèvre bottlings, which were mostly below 25 hl/ha (which would be low in the Côte de Nuits), I found the wines incredibly impressive: unusually intense and tightly wound, but very clearly defined by site. Of course, farming well, harvesting by hand, and working intelligently in the winery help, and in 2019 the bifurcation between the good and the less-than-good is arguably more pronounced than usual. But given that there has been talk of Chablis “loosing its typicity” in warmer years, it was reassuring to see that ripe grapes and low yields can indeed deliver greatness in Chablis, as elsewhere. And it will be fascinating to see where they go with time. Vincent Dauvissat and I discussed the year, and settled on a more chiseled version of 1989: and I venture that anyone who has drunk the Dauvissat 1989s will find their heart racing on reading those words!
