---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172580
topic_slug: why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules
topic_title: "Why I (really, really) don't like wax capsules"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580
post_id: 3214575
post_number: 126
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580/126
date: "2021-08-12"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I truly tank you William for this lengthy treatise. I do. But I hope you can also understand how eminently frustrating it is for you to continually bring up enclosures after all the other explanations. Robert clearly is feeling some frustration with that as well. Even your last sentence feels like…"
word_count: 330
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I truly tank you William for this lengthy treatise. I do. But I hope you can also understand how eminently frustrating it is for you to continually bring up enclosures after all the other explanations. Robert clearly is feeling some frustration with that as well. Even your last sentence feels like…

If you don’t see the significance of a batch of closures that varies in oxygen transmission rate by a factor of fifty, then I don’t think there’s much more to be said. But if DIAM is “pure excuse making”, where are all the premoxed white Burgundies bottled under DIAM? I never encountered one, nor met anyone who had. And nor does your “pure excuse making” account for why producers who didn’t change anything in their winemaking still have problems from time to time, typically for a particular cuvée and vintage (this has happened to Raveneau, and even Coche and d’Auvenay) i.e. batch of corks. As for premox being specific to Burgundy, that’s clearly not the case: I’ve had premoxed Haut Brion Blanc, Vatan Sancerre, Huet, Clos Saint-Hune, Rhône whites… and plenty of German GGs, too, so this isn’t even a uniquely French phenomenon. If more places outside of the Côte de Beaune (even most Chablis and Mâcon is drunk young) aspired to make age-worthy dry whites, I don’t doubt we would see even more than we do.

Now, I have no interest in defending producers who have messed up the winemaking at one or several stages of the process. And if your wine is oxidized a year after release, you likely made a mistake. There are still producers in this camp, and they should be ashamed of themselves. But I do want to defend producers who have done everything right, and who, far from trying to project the blame, have devoted more energy to solving this problem than you can imagine; and who then find, after seven or eight years, that some of their bottles are evolving much faster than others. Knowing their wines more intimately than most consumers, they are even more sensitive to bottles that are slightly advanced (I suspect a lot of mildly advanced bottles get drunk up quite happily), and it’s immensely frustrating.
