---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172580
topic_slug: why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules
topic_title: "Why I (really, really) don't like wax capsules"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580
post_id: 3213378
post_number: 111
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-i-really-really-dont-like-wax-capsules/172580/111
date: "2021-08-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "It does interest me personally, though, since I make white wine in California and will soon make a bit in Burgundy. While I like the aging dynamics of wines under high quality natural cork, and also suspect that there are other things in cork (tannins, lactones etc) that can represent a positive…"
word_count: 275
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:42+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> It does interest me personally, though, since I make white wine in California and will soon make a bit in Burgundy. While I like the aging dynamics of wines under high quality natural cork, and also suspect that there are other things in cork (tannins, lactones etc) that can represent a positive…

I think one of the unfortunate cork reps who contributed to a cork vs screw cap debate a few years back brought this up, and was promptly defenestrated as an industry shill! But there is quite a lot of literature on it, and not all of it funded by the cork industry, e.g. [Aromatic Potential and Bioactivity of Cork Stoppers and Cork By-Products - PMC](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7073939/) Given that wine can be in contact with cork for a long time, this is not without interest. Spend some time smelling the corks next time you open a few bottles!

The first batch of Amorim certified TCA corks we used for our Chenin in 2017 actually imparted quite a lot of vanillin, to the extent that, amusingly, our Norwegian importer suggested we use less new oak (all our barrels were >3 years old at that stage). Admittedly, this is a cross one has to bear when making wine in California, as everyone assumes you must use too much new oak. We went over to DIAM, because of consistency but also because the quality of corks I wanted to buy represented about 10% of the wholesale price per bottle, which got me in trouble with my business partner.

In Burgundy, we use very good quality corks from Francisco Sagrera for our red wines, and I think we will do the same for white. But I’m honestly tempted by DIAM 30, just on the grounds of consistency. I certainly admire people who see this as a totally black-and-white issue, because I find the choice far from self-evident.
