---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172821
topic_slug: premox-and-american-chardonnay
topic_title: "Premox and American Chardonnay"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/premox-and-american-chardonnay/172821
post_id: 4105615
post_number: 140
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/premox-and-american-chardonnay/172821/140
date: "2023-07-01"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 367
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:29+00:00"
---

With each breaking of the cake, you release potassium, bumping the pH up appreciably each time.

This concept is at the heart of the separation of press fractions in Champagne. The “cuvée”, from the first real pressing of the marc, is the cleanest juice with the lowest pH. The “tailles” at the end are separated and often sold off in bulk or relegated to a lesser cuvée.

Of course, when making still Chardonnay, whether in California or Burgundy, we are not looking to produce vins clairs in Champagne (where traditionally a minimum of skin extraction was sought, as CO2 amplifies the perception of bitterness), and our grape skins are riper; so we can crush the grapes before pressing, which delivers a better juice yield and the structuring dry extract that lends the wine structural shoulders and mid-palate presence. But, we had better then take care not to break the cake repeatedly during pressing as this would bump our pH up too high. You could call this the Guffens / Coche-Dury school of pressing white grapes.

The alternative school is to pick less ripe and break the cake more during pressing. The higher acidity of the more tart fruit somewhat compensates for the potassium pH upticks during pressing. You may then need to chaptalize as your potential abv will be low. You might even not crush your fruit initially and then use each breaking of the cake as a way to pick up some additional skin extract. Of course, in this scenario your most interesting gross lees (bourbs) unfortunately come at the end, with your highest pH juice; whereas with crushing you get your best lees along with your best juice at the beginning.

I am a bit of an extremist in applying the first approach with my white wines in Burgundy, and I just did my post-winter lab analysis. Pressing crushed fruit in a basket press without breaking the cake and re-pressing delivered Meursault Narvaux at pH 3.04 with 13.6% alcohol and fully completed malolactic. And that’s in a what is quite a high pH white vintage (I have seen analysis for whites as high as pH 3.6 in 2022).
