---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 172925
topic_slug: louis-roederer-nv-collection-242
topic_title: "Louis Roederer NV Collection 242 ?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/louis-roederer-nv-collection-242/172925
post_id: 3223808
post_number: 8
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/louis-roederer-nv-collection-242/172925/8
date: "2021-08-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Here’s what John Gilman said on Twitter. x.com Several branches on the thread but that seems like the juiciest tweet. I asked and they said it just start becoming available around this week in the US."
word_count: 321
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:41+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Here’s what John Gilman said on Twitter. x.com Several branches on the thread but that seems like the juiciest tweet. I asked and they said it just start becoming available around this week in the US.

The perpetual reserve (it isn’t technically a solera, if one’s going to be pedantic) was established in 2012, with 2017 being the base year of the first rendition (242). The 242 contains 34% reserve wine from that perpetual reserve (i.e a blend of 2012-2016), which ages in big stainless steel tanks without malolactic, as well as 10% foudre-aged reserve wines.

This winemaking process for this cuvée has pretty much nothing to do with Bollinger’s style, the comparison made in the tweet to which John is replying, and it’s a good example one of the things that make talking about Champagne so tricky: people confuse the signatures of reductive and oxidative styles, dosage, Maillard-like reactions, long sur lattes aging, oxidative evolution on cork etc—to the extent that it’s quite common to hear chalk being compared to cheese.

Since we’re really getting into it, here is a preview of some of my comments which will be coming out in a few weeks:
> “Roederer’s Brut Premier was created in the 1980s to prove to consumers that we could deliver consistent quality with a blend that compensated for less than perfectly ripe vintages”, explains Jean-Baptiste Lecaillon. “We were blending in pursuit of maturity, of ripeness. The concept behind the Brut Collection is the opposite: we’re looking for freshness—and we are embracing singularity, something we’re emphasizing by enumerating each year’s blend.” This project has been in the making since 2012, when Lecaillon set aside 21,000 liters of wine for constitute a perpetual reserve aged in large tanks without malolactic fermentation. Sourcing has evolved, too: less must is coming from cooperatives, and only vineyards cultivated without the use of herbicides inform the blend. A dedicated team oversee all this, visiting every grower three times per year. And vinification is parcel by parcel to deliver a maximum of blending components.
