---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 173128
topic_slug: tn-n-v-egly-ouriet-champagne-grand-cru-brut-rose
topic_title: "TN: N.V. Egly-Ouriet Champagne Grand Cru Brut Rosé"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-n-v-egly-ouriet-champagne-grand-cru-brut-rose/173128
post_id: 3227075
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tn-n-v-egly-ouriet-champagne-grand-cru-brut-rose/173128/13
date: "2021-08-31"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "It is funny how some wines go in or out of favor. A few years back (5?) Bassins in DC couldn’t move either Egly-Ouriet or Vilmart. Put all of the stock in the close out bin at mark down pricing to get it off the shelf. Didn’t carry either of them for a few years after that. Now they carry both…"
word_count: 289
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:41+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> It is funny how some wines go in or out of favor. A few years back (5?) Bassins in DC couldn’t move either Egly-Ouriet or Vilmart. Put all of the stock in the close out bin at mark down pricing to get it off the shelf. Didn’t carry either of them for a few years after that. Now they carry both…

It’s true that the wines are selling better today, even though they’re more expensive than they were a couple of years ago. It’s an interesting question as to why that occurred, because Egly belongs up there with the best of the best if you want to talk about farming and winemaking, irrespective of style, and has been for three decades. I think that it seemed for a while as if the press cooled on Egly a little, perhaps because it wasn’t “new”; he told me that since I gave the 2008 100/100 in TWA, sales increased by a third, and across the range, not just for the 2008. So perhaps people just needed to be reminded that this stuff is extremely good! Public relations is also not something to which Francis devotes a lot of attention, which is unusual in Champagne: he’s a very cordial host, of course, but it isn’t easy to get an appointment and he’s not going to start opening bottles of Clos Rougeard at random, or pour a vertical over a 3* lunch in Reims—which is just fine by me, because I am more than happy tasting the wines and taking a tour of the vineyards! And on top of that, I think we’re in the middle of a shift where people are finally accepting that the best growers’ wines are as good as anything being made in Champagne and that they will be priced accordingly. For a long time, people acknowledged the quality while balking at the price: just as someone who doesn’t think twice about spending $250 on a bottle of Meursault balks at spending $45 on Mâcon. That’s clearly changing.
