---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 173245
topic_slug: tns-2010-jean-marc-bouley-2012-hubert-lignier
topic_title: "TNs: 2010 Jean-Marc Bouley, 2012 Hubert Lignier"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tns-2010-jean-marc-bouley-2012-hubert-lignier/173245
post_id: 3230690
post_number: 11
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tns-2010-jean-marc-bouley-2012-hubert-lignier/173245/11
date: "2021-09-05"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Interesting. I love all the Bouley wines, and I’m obviously nowhere near your level of expertise, but I’m not sure that things like vine age and expositions really explain differences in the Bouley’s various wines, or lead to a conclusion that one is superior to the others. He doesn’t seem to…"
word_count: 179
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:41+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Interesting. I love all the Bouley wines, and I’m obviously nowhere near your level of expertise, but I’m not sure that things like vine age and expositions really explain differences in the Bouley’s various wines, or lead to a conclusion that one is superior to the others. He doesn’t seem to…

Ah, on the contrary, I think expositions, soils, mesoclimate and vine age / genetics explain most of the differences!  That is certainly what Thomas is aiming for. As for stems, there is in fact something of a formula, in that he retains the majority of stems for his clay-rich sites, whereas the stonier sites are mostly or entirely destemmed. Rugiens, being from the high and stony part of the vineyard, is thus generally mostly destemmed, whereas Fremiers is mostly not (in 2016, he kept some 30% stems for Rugiens because the wine was unusually rich). But he does this because he believes it’s complementary to the differences between the sites, not in any attempt to efface the differences. He began using whole bunches, inspired by Nicolas Rossignol, in 2003, and  he settled on this approach of using them mostly for his clay-rich terroirs in the years that followed, well before 2012.

That is interesting what you say about Clos des Chênes, that hadn’t really occurred to me. I guess the people assuming that are Lafarge drinkers!
