---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 173448
topic_slug: who-is-right-same-bottle-rated-88-to-97-within-3-years
topic_title: "Who is right? Same bottle rated 88-to-97 within 3 years"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/who-is-right-same-bottle-rated-88-to-97-within-3-years/173448
post_id: 3235803
post_number: 23
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/who-is-right-same-bottle-rated-88-to-97-within-3-years/173448/23
date: "2021-09-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I have no doubt each of these “impressionists” were giving their honest scoring for the wine at the time and conditions of tasting. There is much about wine assessment at a moment in time that is impression/interpretation/prediction rather than straight quantifiable science. IMO this type of wine…"
word_count: 311
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:41+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I have no doubt each of these “impressionists” were giving their honest scoring for the wine at the time and conditions of tasting. There is much about wine assessment at a moment in time that is impression/interpretation/prediction rather than straight quantifiable science. IMO this type of wine…

Well, I think there are a variety of things that account for the discrepancy (and please don’t take this as a criticism of the other cited writers, as that is not my intention):

1. tasting the wine at different moments: Thomas’ wines take a while to come together, and are made to taste good in bottle at age ten, not necessarily from barrel on e.g. Friday 25th October, or whenever a writer comes to visit. Given his long macerations and élevage, that’s perfectly natural. For this reason, Thomas stopped doing barrel tastings for review (just for interest, now) from last year, so we are all on the same page.
1. different visions of Burgundy, and the extent to which a vineyard’s place in the AOC hierarchy imposes limitations on how good it can be. While I firmly believe that some sites are better than others, I do think that Burgundy’s intensely stadial hierarchy is as much reinforced as revealed by viticultural and winemaking choices (as an example of that, just today I heard a story of a winemaker of presses his Perrières, Genevrières and Bouchères grapes all together, and vinifies the wine to be labelled Perrières in a new barrel, the wine to be labelled Genvrières in a once-used barrel, and the “Bouchères” in a twice-used barrel). There is certainly room to disagree with this approach, and the sanction of history behind the best sites is considerable (something to which, as an historian by training, I am not insensible). But equally, my experience tasting and making wine leads me to think that the difference in reputation between Rugiens and in this case an adjacent parcel doesn’t hugely detract from the wine in the glass.
1. different palate preferences. I actually think this is the least significant of the three factors at play, personally.
