---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 175124
topic_slug: reductive-non-oxidative-champagne
topic_title: "\"Reductive\" (non oxidative) Champagne"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/reductive-non-oxidative-champagne/175124
post_id: 3294475
post_number: 33
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/reductive-non-oxidative-champagne/175124/33
date: "2021-12-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Looking for some other stuff this weekend, I ran into an old OpEd on GuildSomm that will likely be at least somewhat controversial here: It doesn’t strike me as a piece that has aged very well, as the best growers continue to refine their craft, and extreme vintage conditions throw into ever…"
word_count: 299
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:40+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Looking for some other stuff this weekend, I ran into an old OpEd on GuildSomm that will likely be at least somewhat controversial here: It doesn’t strike me as a piece that has aged very well, as the best growers continue to refine their craft, and extreme vintage conditions throw into ever…

To me, the article might have made more sense had it been written in 2010 than in 2015. Very few growers are cited by name, and there are no concrete examples of wines that Greg (I assume he’s the author?) doesn’t like to agree or disagree with. The whole argument is ex cathedra, an assertion about what constitutes “the best” in Champagne without any argumentation, only assertion. I find it hard to imagine that anyone who tasted extensively in Champagne in 2015 could have come to such conclusions.

As for improvement across the board, certainly, there’s plenty of that (btw, remind me where I wrote about Billecart’s viticultural improvements? They are indeed evolving, and I believe have stopped using herbicides, but I don’t think I wrote about that yet)! And indeed, personally, I find the bifurcation between marques and growers rather unhelpful: the distinction between good and bad farmers, irrespective of size and business model, is more useful. But, that bifurcation is the premise of the opinion piece, and on its own terms, as I have already contended, I think it clearly hasn’t aged well.

As for Marie Courtin, I’m overdue a feature on the Aube. I’d planned it for this year, but then the harvest in Burgundy was so late that I got caught up reviewing 2020s and didn’t have time to go (my French visa application has also been a touch delayed). But, the project isn’t forgotten: I’m going to try to spend a week in Troyes and make lots of visits, because it really merits that sort of coverage at least every few years, and I am acutely aware that growers down south are getting a bit shortchanged in terms of coverage as it stands.
