---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 176078
topic_slug: white-burgundy-15-years-on
topic_title: "White Burgundy 15 years on."
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/white-burgundy-15-years-on/176078
post_id: 3313624
post_number: 53
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/white-burgundy-15-years-on/176078/53
date: "2022-01-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Could corks really have declined so precipitously between 1993 (almost no premox) and 1995 (epidemic of premox)? Especially without leaving much of a premox trail in other countries, including countries like Germany notorious for using lousy corks?"
word_count: 208
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:40+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Could corks really have declined so precipitously between 1993 (almost no premox) and 1995 (epidemic of premox)? Especially without leaving much of a premox trail in other countries, including countries like Germany notorious for using lousy corks?

I do think that the 1995/1996 distinction is a bit too cleanly drawn: there are plenty of premoxed 1994 white Bordeaux, as well as 89, 90 and 92 white Burgs that evolved faster than one would have expected.

But the real point is that the winemaking changes, delivering much less robust wines, threw the decline in cork quality into relief. If you go from 55 ppm free SO2 at bottling to at most 20 ppm, and then a bunch of that is eaten up because you bottled from tank with too much dissolved oxygen, your wine is going to evolve a lot quicker than if you use the same closure you used before. And what before would have been “bottle variation” becomes something much more obvious.

It would be worth looking into changes in cork farming, harvesting, and processing around that time. It’s something I’d like to study more myself, as what I know is mainly anecdote from cork producers. But my understanding is that the trees were being harvested on a shorter rotation, and people were irrigating. Open to correction on this, but it would make sense in the context of surging demand for cork due to New World winemaking growth in that era.
