---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 176078
topic_slug: white-burgundy-15-years-on
topic_title: "White Burgundy 15 years on."
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/white-burgundy-15-years-on/176078
post_id: 3314030
post_number: 91
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/white-burgundy-15-years-on/176078/91
date: "2022-01-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Any suggestions of producers today who are producing wines in the style of the “white Burgundy of yesteryear”? I started my wine journey firmly in the premox era so I don’t have a good sense of it."
word_count: 237
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:40+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Any suggestions of producers today who are producing wines in the style of the “white Burgundy of yesteryear”? I started my wine journey firmly in the premox era so I don’t have a good sense of it.

Hard to answer because in various ways everyone has “cleaned things up”, and the fruit today isn’t the same as the fruit of the early 1990s. Some sort of change and evolution is natural, as children rarely want to drink or make exactly the same wines as their parents (the white Burgs of the 70s and 80s, allowing for the difference in age, are different in style form the white Burgs of the 30s and 40s). In a sense, looking at a totally unreconstructed producer such as Domaine Jean Javillier in Meursault would make sense if you want a very literal answer to your question. But if you permit me to answer more broadly, in the sense of producers making age-worthy, classically structured wines that need a bit of time to unwind and which gain a lot of complexity by age ten and more by age twenty, I would nominate, off the top of my head, Bernard Moreau, Henri Germain, Jean-Claude Bachelet, Hubert Lamy, Coche-Dury, Dureuil-Janthial, Lamy-Caillat, Pierre Morey, Guffens-Heynen and d’Auvenay. Within that short and non-exhaustive list, Lamy and Guffens are both using DIAM (Guffens since 2010, and Lamy bit by bit, and wholesale since 2017). I have confined myself to producers I own a reasonable amount of (with the exception of d’Auvenay), so that I am only giving you recommendations that I have followed myself.
