---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 176513
topic_slug: wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report
topic_title: "WK's new 2020 and 2019 Burgundy Report"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513
post_id: 3327353
post_number: 135
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513/135
date: "2022-01-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Which leads me to more questions; some of which I don’t expect answers. The report seems to indicate that all Burgundy is good, or even very good. 2020 seems like a solid vintage, but really? Every producer is awesome? What about producers not in the report? Some, I expect, didn’t get in for…"
word_count: 196
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:40+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Which leads me to more questions; some of which I don’t expect answers. The report seems to indicate that all Burgundy is good, or even very good. 2020 seems like a solid vintage, but really? Every producer is awesome? What about producers not in the report? Some, I expect, didn’t get in for…

I do think there are such producers, though the real dreck is indeed largely consumed domestically. I have traumatic memories of a protracted tasting at Chanzy in Bouzeron, who abuse fine appellations all over Burgundy. There are also several large houses with international distribution whose wines should be a lot better than they are. To me, making an atrocious Bourgogne is probably a more venial sin than making a mediocre grand cru, and there are plenty of people who do that. I think almost all the bad wine in Burgundy is explicable by people not having understood the reality of the current market; which is that if you aspire to make great wine, the market will follow you, no matter where you are. Never have producers had more tools at their disposal to reach potential consumers and to explain what they are trying to do to a broad audience, and never has that audience been so receptive. Yet there remain plenty of producers who shoot for volume across the board, and even more who don’t invest enough effort in their lesser AOCs, because “c’est Bourgogne quand même” (“it’s just Bourgone, all the same”).
