---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 176513
topic_slug: wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report
topic_title: "WK's new 2020 and 2019 Burgundy Report"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513
post_id: 3327188
post_number: 121
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513/121
date: "2022-01-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "As with any report in part, we the readers have to address the meaning of omissions. For instance, William has never covered Domaine Dublere, a winery I believe you like quite a bit. Is the reason because he’s just never gotten there or because he doesn’t think their wine is good? In the abstract,…"
word_count: 223
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:40+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> As with any report in part, we the readers have to address the meaning of omissions. For instance, William has never covered Domaine Dublere, a winery I believe you like quite a bit. Is the reason because he’s just never gotten there or because he doesn’t think their wine is good? In the abstract,…

Domaine Dublère sold in 2019, and didn’t sell any of their 2017s or '18s under their label, so this is not a great example as 2017 was the first vintage I covered for TWA.

But quibbling aside, I tend to think that the sort of generalizations you seem to be looking for in a vintage report are largely meaningless. In a region with such a diversity of sites and producer approaches as Burgundy, vintage charts have always been next to useless. There is no one “definitive” 2020. And there is no way to anticipate whether someone in Burgundy made good wines without tasting them first. I would never recommend anyone to buy by vintage, indiscriminately, “with confidence”.

Edit: I would add that I don’t mean to seem defensive. I simply have serious reservations about generalizing about wines I haven’t tasted; and I prefer to prioritize trying to find good wines rather than bad in my reporting, which I think makes sense. This likely means that there are train wrecks in 2020 that I didn’t taste, along with, I’m sure, some exceptional wines. You will, however, find some critical reviews and commentaries of what I consider less successful 2020s in my report, even if the vast majority of the 100 or so estates I visited did very well indeed.
