---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 176513
topic_slug: wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report
topic_title: "WK's new 2020 and 2019 Burgundy Report"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513
post_id: 3327393
post_number: 141
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513/141
date: "2022-01-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "One quick question about extraction that I find interesting - you talk about minimal extraction with their wines which, anecdotally, it seems more and more producers are aiming for with pneumatic presses, no pigeage, and other “infusion”-oriented practices - do you find that with the riper fruit…"
word_count: 309
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:40+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> One quick question about extraction that I find interesting - you talk about minimal extraction with their wines which, anecdotally, it seems more and more producers are aiming for with pneumatic presses, no pigeage, and other “infusion”-oriented practices - do you find that with the riper fruit…

It’s a huge question! For reds, everyone focusses on punch downs, but no one talks about enzymes, heated post-fermentation macerations, or pressing, all three of which are, at least in my experience, much more extractive than a classic punch down by foot (which is different from a mechanical punchdown). If you do zero punch downs, and then press without tasing the press wine, you can easily make a much more extracted wine than if you do lots of punchdowns and just keep free-run juice. I remember how terrified I was to “over-extract” when I made my first cuvée in Burgundy, and it took me a few years to realize that, if you have great fruit, don’t heat your tanks, don’t add enzymes, and then use a very gentle basket press, you don’t make wines that are chewy or blocky or opaque. I meet producers who tell me they did two punch downs, whose wines are chewy and austere, and then a cuvée that a punched down twice a day for ten days tastes melting and velvety and supple. Go figure.

As for longevity as a correlate of extraction, well, clearly the two are linked. But equally, in Burgundy we are looking at very low pH wines (relative to Bordeaux, Rhône or most New World reds) that can age on their balance and acid, like white wines, much better than you might think. There have also long been debates about this, going back to the early- mid-19th century, when people first started extending macerations beyond 24-48 hours. I tend to think it’s possible to make very delicately extracted reds which will age a long time, but then you have to be very careful about giving them a very oxidative élevage (e.g. lots of new oak plus not much lees).
