---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 176513
topic_slug: wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report
topic_title: "WK's new 2020 and 2019 Burgundy Report"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513
post_id: 3324382
post_number: 8
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/wks-new-2020-and-2019-burgundy-report/176513/8
date: "2022-01-21"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Reports are starting to get repetitive. For the most part, you know who will be at the top. Not saying that a bad thing at all. Those producers are great and they deserve the accolades."
word_count: 266
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:39+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Reports are starting to get repetitive. For the most part, you know who will be at the top. Not saying that a bad thing at all. Those producers are great and they deserve the accolades.

I certainly understand why you feel that way! I do think that I’ve “shuffled the deck” a bit (look where Lachaux and Duroché rank in the report, or Lamy, Henri Germain and Thomas Bouley from the Côte de Beaune), but any vintage report of two very good vintages that features the likes of Leroy, DRC and Coche is certainly going to look a bit iterative if you sort by score—unless something somewhere went badly wrong, which in 2019 and 2020 it happily didn’t. I hope there is added value, at least, in the producer profiles, which often go into quite a bit of detail about winemaking choices and evolutions at each domaine.

But while there are a couple of more under-the-radar names in the report (I would flag up Didier Fornerol and Michel Mallard in particular), that is something I try to do much more of in my annual Spring report, where I look at less famous appellations and less famous winemakers. I have spent a lot of time in the Chalonniase; last year I did a lot of Hautes-Côtes stuff; and this year I’m thinking of digging around a bit more in Fixin and Marsannay. I found that reviewing producers like this in the big end-of-year report was a bit of a waste of time, as everyone scrolls to the top and they don’t really get much exposure. I also don’t see the interest in reviewing producers whose wines are generally not sold as futures from barrel, so in Spring I taste from bottle.
