---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 178052
topic_slug: tns-vertical-tastings-of-chateau-latour-and-chateau-lafite-rothschild-in-atl-with-mark-taylor
topic_title: "TNs:   Vertical tastings of Chateau Latour and Chateau Lafite Rothschild in ATL with Mark Taylor"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tns-vertical-tastings-of-chateau-latour-and-chateau-lafite-rothschild-in-atl-with-mark-taylor/178052
post_id: 4127563
post_number: 19
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/tns-vertical-tastings-of-chateau-latour-and-chateau-lafite-rothschild-in-atl-with-mark-taylor/178052/19
date: "2023-08-06"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Lots of interesting observations. One of best to me was that Lafite is a product of the vintage and shows the area Paulliac instead of having an aromatic house stamp like Latour."
word_count: 223
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:29+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Lots of interesting observations. One of best to me was that Lafite is a product of the vintage and shows the area Paulliac instead of having an aromatic house stamp like Latour.

I would disagree with this. Pauillac is a big AOC and there is no one expression of Pauillac. E.g. Lynch Moussas and Pichon Baron are both just as much Pauillac, but the terroirs are very different. It is also a little ironic to identify Lafite with Pauillac “typicity”, since they often include a large block in Saint-Estèphe next to Cos in the blend! (they have the right to do this, on historical grounds, until such a moment as they rip up and replant the vineyard - an unlikely eventuality under the circumstances)

I would agree however in the sense that Latour has a more homogenous terroir and thus a more direct, one could almost say monolithic, expression. Lafite shares the plateau of Carruades with Mouton, but the rest of their holdings are very different, making the ensemble more complex. Margaux and Lafite have more diverse terroirs, in this sense, than Mouton and Latour which are more uniform, and I think that comes across in the wines. Informed by this, and their in-house cooperage (with staves sourced from Gauthier), I do think the wines have a strong house style, even with all the changes to the blend, which has trended heavily towards Cabernet in the last two decades: less muscular than Latour and more aromatic, with a strong cedar/cigar box scent.
