---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 178578
topic_slug: bordeaux-2021
topic_title: "Bordeaux 2021"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bordeaux-2021/178578
post_id: 3398521
post_number: 52
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bordeaux-2021/178578/52
date: "2022-04-24"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "For all the folks crowing about chaptalization, it’s been going on forever, you don’t see tasting notes about wines pre-1995 lamenting potential chaptalization, it’s just a snarky click bait argument in 2021 about “modern wines” to see who replies so you can argue about the detriment of…"
word_count: 165
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:22+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> For all the folks crowing about chaptalization, it’s been going on forever, you don’t see tasting notes about wines pre-1995 lamenting potential chaptalization, it’s just a snarky click bait argument in 2021 about “modern wines” to see who replies so you can argue about the detriment of…

The sweetness and mid-palate amplitude contributed by alcohol is one of the factors that balances a wine. A red Bordeaux with all the alcohol removed would be exceedingly thin and bitter. In some years in cool climates, you can attain physiological ripeness of tannins before your accumulate all that much sugar. This has been the case much less often in the last decade that it was historically, but it can still happen. In that context, the additional alcohol you can supply by chaptalization can help to bring the wine into balance, “enrobing” tannins (as the French say) and fleshing out the mid-palate without deforming the style or character of the wine. There are also supplemental benefits, notably in Burgundy, such as prolonging the fermentation time. That is the good side of chaptalization. Of course, chaptalizing physiologically unripe grapes simple makes a green wine more alcoholic, which is a dubious benefit, but that is not what the top estates of Bordeaux did in 2021.
