---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 178793
topic_slug: hautes-cotes-where-its-at-for-me
topic_title: "Hautes Cotes: where its at for me"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/hautes-cotes-where-its-at-for-me/178793
post_id: 3399744
post_number: 12
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/hautes-cotes-where-its-at-for-me/178793/12
date: "2022-04-26"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "But the Côtes de Nuits-Villages AOC is quite distinct. It’s an appellation shared between a number of villages (hence the plural “Villages” in the name of the AOC) that didn’t have the name recognition or the desire to win individual AOCs back when the classification was drawn up. But their…"
word_count: 180
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:39+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> But the Côtes de Nuits-Villages AOC is quite distinct. It’s an appellation shared between a number of villages (hence the plural “Villages” in the name of the AOC) that didn’t have the name recognition or the desire to win individual AOCs back when the classification was drawn up. But their…

Founerol is a benchmark for sure. Camille Thiriet has already been mentioned, and rightly so. Jérome Galeyrand is also very interesting, his Retraits bottling is terrific. All three are working with quite a bit of whole bunch. For a destemmed, somewhat richer, oakier style that’s very well done, look at Domaine Gérard Julien.

I think the problem with both AOCs, and it’s one thing they do have in common, is that as soon as any producer has any other grander appellations, these wines get served first as part of the warm up act. Galeyrand for example does things differently and presents his Retraits after his Gevrey and Fixin wines, but in most places the AOC hierarchy tends to assert itself. Yet as far as I am able to ascertain, there is no fundamental or immediate change in the terroir when you exit the Clos de la Maréchal in NSG 1er cru and immediately enter Côte de Nuits-Villages… (Mugnier makes a CdN-V, btw, for internal consumption, and he let me try it from barrel once—terrific wine!)
