---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 179185
topic_slug: oh-the-irony-i-just-subscribed-to-wine-advocate-and-heres-why
topic_title: "Oh, the irony...I just subscribed to Wine Advocate!! (and here's why...)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/oh-the-irony-i-just-subscribed-to-wine-advocate-and-heres-why/179185
post_id: 3410397
post_number: 70
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/oh-the-irony-i-just-subscribed-to-wine-advocate-and-heres-why/179185/70
date: "2022-05-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "I’m a bit puzzled by describing it as “an old fashioned style of winemaking,” but otherwise, I agree that it’s nice to see William calling his shots like that. I assumed what he meant by that was the +/- 2000 to 2010 (2015) or so style of bigger, riper, etc., as many Chateau have been starting to…"
word_count: 232
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:39+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> I’m a bit puzzled by describing it as “an old fashioned style of winemaking,” but otherwise, I agree that it’s nice to see William calling his shots like that. I assumed what he meant by that was the +/- 2000 to 2010 (2015) or so style of bigger, riper, etc., as many Chateau have been starting to…

That’s exactly right. The stylistic choices that were very fashionable a decade or two ago today look, I venture, immensely unfashionable; or, to put it another way, old-fashioned. Just as you don’t hear many people listening to the Spice Girls these days… One producer who wasn’t happy with my score contacted me to “remind” me that I write for our readers and not for myself; yet my impression is that the market is, in fact, very much moving in the same direction—just look at what has happened at Troplong Mondot since 2018! As Chanel put it, fashion changes but style endures; and rather than being a swing of the pendulum, the tendency of contemporary Bordeaux seems to me to be more of a return to a classically *Bordelais* style, while retaining the advantages of modernity—ripe, rigorously selected grapes; very precise tannin management; elimination of brettanomyces (even if this is far from a fait accompli everywhere in Bordeaux); less oxidative élevage; more precise bottling practices etc etc. In appreciating all of this, we mustn’t forget what a catalyst “Modernist” winemaking was; but in pushing the boundaries, sometimes we exceed them, and it’s important to know when to rein things in—especially given that the climate of the last decade has largely supplied all the richness and more that people were grasping for in the 1990s.
