---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 179185
topic_slug: oh-the-irony-i-just-subscribed-to-wine-advocate-and-heres-why
topic_title: "Oh, the irony...I just subscribed to Wine Advocate!! (and here's why...)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/oh-the-irony-i-just-subscribed-to-wine-advocate-and-heres-why/179185
post_id: 3412846
post_number: 119
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/oh-the-irony-i-just-subscribed-to-wine-advocate-and-heres-why/179185/119
date: "2022-05-18"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: "Thanks William for your lengthy precis! One speculative complaint I sometimes see made is that the new style of wines are less age-worthy than the tannic beasts (old school, if you will) of yore. More commonly the thought is that softer tannins and higher alcohol will make for poorer aging…"
word_count: 352
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:39+00:00"
---

> *Replying to :*  
> Thanks William for your lengthy precis! One speculative complaint I sometimes see made is that the new style of wines are less age-worthy than the tannic beasts (old school, if you will) of yore. More commonly the thought is that softer tannins and higher alcohol will make for poorer aging…

Of course, until the wines have actually aged for 50+ years, it’s always going to be an open question! I think the answer will really depend on which estate and what ensemble of practices they have adopted. I can see a wine such as the 2021 Léoville-Las Cases, for example, aging longer and better than e.g. 1988/89/90. When you have high levels of polyphenols, comparatively low pHs, careful élevage and impeccable bottling practices with good closures, the longevity of the wines shouldn’t be an issue for anyone in their 30s or older today.

A lot of the explanation for why the wines of yesteryear were so austere had to do with viticulture and picking decisions. The really of a 100-hectare vineyard is that you have a lot of heterogeneity and you need to pick block by block, by site and variety, and not always in the same order every year. Ideally you then vinify block by block, adapting according to the potential of the fruit. In the old days, for reasons of convenience, you would start in the north, work south, and carry on picking until you were done; and the fruit would go into the big vats as it came in. The result was plenty of stuff picked at marginal levels of maturity, and winemaking that wasn’t optimized (you don’t want to go hard on extraction in a vat of marginally ripe fruit). While some wines made this way have aged well, in general the approach tended to favor very ripe vintages, when everything was more or less ripe and where all the tannins were more or less supple, making for very big vintage variation depending on levels of maturity. Some winemaking gurus, rather than changing much in the vineyards, tried to solve the problem by simply picking very late, so everything was at least ripe and plenty overripe, and “correcting” any imbalances in the winery.

Today, precision viticulture and winemaking begins to liberate even the biggest estates of the Médoc from this dynamic, and I am all in favor of it.
