---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 289746
topic_slug: haute-densite-basse-densite
topic_title: "Haute densité—basse densité"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/haute-densite-basse-densite/289746
post_id: 3909884
post_number: 6
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/haute-densite-basse-densite/289746/6
date: "2022-10-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 401
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:31+00:00"
---

A pleasure to exchange with you again, Ulrich! But I think you are conflating two aspects of the “vignes semi-larges” debate. What was raised here was planting density, but the other dimension is the possibility to have higher canopies. The traditional Champagne approach is high density and canopies hedged low (1m10 at most); and hedging low can indeed result in a denser canopy, as cutting the vines’ apex promotes growth of laterals, as well as resulting in higher pH musts for a variety of reasons. Higher canopies with very late hedging, or no hedging at all, are one solution, as you do not get the lateral growth so the canopy isn’t so thick, and the clusters are smaller. At high densities, this also has the advantage of shading the fruiting zone, protecting from sun burn. This is the approach increasingly being followed by many top growers in Burgundy, as well as several in Champagne. I suspect, based on my exchanges with him, that when he talks of letting his vines grow wild, Brochet is talking of not hedging his canopies, i.e. non rognage. After all, “wild” has no bearing on planting density per se.

I’m also surprised to hear some of your contentions about higher density resulting in “bigger leaves”, higher pHs, etc - as I say, I think you’re conflating the issues of low hedging and high density planting, but if you’re not, I certainly never saw any evidence for that in Burgundy. Lamy’s HD wines have higher TA/lower pH than his regular cuvées from the same parcels… And the leaves are very clearly the same size. But of course, you have to be so crazy to plant at densities >12k/hectare that this is unlikely to be the subject of a proper scientific study any time soon. To me, the real question about high density plantings is the worry about drought conditions, and it is certainly a very big worry. Yet, as many production oriented producers lobby for permission to plant at lower densities, the best wines of Burgundy and Champagne continue to be produced from very high density plantings…

It would be nice to see a situation where planting density and canopy management could be adjusted site by site, yet for the time being material constraints (limitations of tractors and equipment) impose a “one size fits all” approach on most producers.
