---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 290040
topic_slug: book-review-burgundy-a-comprehensive-guide-robert-m-parker-jr-1990
topic_title: "Book Review: Burgundy, a Comprehensive Guide (Robert M Parker Jr., 1990)"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/book-review-burgundy-a-comprehensive-guide-robert-m-parker-jr-1990/290040
post_id: 3914260
post_number: 12
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/book-review-burgundy-a-comprehensive-guide-robert-m-parker-jr-1990/290040/12
date: "2022-10-17"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 350
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:31+00:00"
---

It’s definitely interesting to reread this book, along with others from the era, thirty-plus years later. Anthony Hanson’s declaration that “great Burgundy smells of sh*t”, removed from later editions of his 1982 book, probably captures better than anything how much times have changed in the interim.

In one of his last interviews, as relayed by Andrew Jefford in *Decanter* IIRC, RP comments that in retrospect he feels he was too bellicose in Burgundy, and that he underestimated the capacity to age and improve of lighter, more elegantly-styled vintages of red Burgundy. I think we can all agree with that.

But while it’s easy to focus on what authors don’t say or get wrong, several of the key take-home messages of the book do seem to me, in the end, to have stood the test of time, in particular: that the problem of overcropping, enabled by intensive agrochemical usage, had diminished the quality and concentration of the grapes in Burgundy and their capacity to ripen; that over-chaptalization was a poor substitute for moderate yields and better maturity; and that aggressive filtration (filtration technology being far from what it is today) was eviscerating many wines. I think we could all agree that the red Burgundies of the 1980s are hardly wines to buy blindly regardless of vintage or producer.

He also correctly identified more than a few producers who were far from the household names they are today. Jasper Morris’ 1988 book on White Burgundy, for example, makes no mention of Coche-Dury (unless I missed it - I haven’t looked at it in a decade), whereas RP singles him out as one of region’s best. Similarly, Lalou Bize-Leroy has often mentioned to me that she credits RP’s early praise of her wines for the fact that her new domaine was taken seriously. A lot of things like this look self-evident in 2022, but where perhaps not quite so obvious back in the day, even if serious Burgundy lovers were often in many cases already tuned in, of course.
