---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 293503
topic_slug: champagne-price-increases
topic_title: "Champagne price increases"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/champagne-price-increases/293503
post_id: 3967304
post_number: 88
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/champagne-price-increases/293503/88
date: "2023-01-08"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 434
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:27+00:00"
---

Thanks, Marc! I absolutely agree with you, but I also agree with Donald that we can go a lot further—even if, if we are just scratching the surface at TWA, I would love to know what the other major Anglophone publications are doing (permaculture, perhaps? or even agroforestry).

Champagne comes with a lot of challenges for a reviewer, as the distances are big, there’s a lot of detail to master and above all write up (blends of cépage and vintages, disgorgement dates, dosage, etc), it’s hard to taste as many wines in a day as one can with still wines (tasting sparkling wine is quite fatiguing), and the rhythm of releases and disgorgements varies a lot from producer to producer. Keeping up with new tasting notes on new releases of classic-styled Brut NV cuvées that at least in principle are supposed to be more similar than different every year is also quite, well, iterative… But I’m very proud of the work we’ve done so far, with the initial aspiration to look a bit further afield than other major publications, many of whom are highly dependent on US importer portfolio tastings, and to go a bit deeper into context, viticulture - as I try to do in Burgundy.

But now is the time to go further. That’s one reason why we just hired Yohan Castaing, who is going to take over covering a lot of the bigger houses, which will mean I have more time to devote to finding the new and emerging growers and separating the interesting from the less interesting amid Champagne’s current efflorescence of small grower-bottlers. We will also attempt to, at last, do justice to the Aube, which really has been the big gap in our coverage thus far, and which is very much in the spirit of what I have tried to do in the Mâconnais and Côte Chalonnaise in Burgundy. So even if, having taken over Bordeaux, I have a bit more on my plate (and with a young family, too), we have taken some steps to make my work load a bit more coherent and, rather than simply treading water or still less retrenching, hopefully take things forward considerably in 2023.

Certainly, the interest is there, as in the last few years Champagne has emerged as one of the most-read regions on our site. So I think it makes sense to invest more time, energy, and resources there, as it really is one of France’s more dynamic wine regions, and there is just so much to get into.
