---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 294814
topic_slug: domaine-michel-sarazzin-et-fils-question
topic_title: "Domaine Michel Sarazzin et Fils Question"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/domaine-michel-sarazzin-et-fils-question/294814
post_id: 3981596
post_number: 13
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/domaine-michel-sarazzin-et-fils-question/294814/13
date: "2023-01-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 262
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:30+00:00"
---

For me the best in the region are Dureuil-Janthial and Lorenzon who make much better wines than many producers in the Côte d’Or. Lumpp are also excellent, the first to try to bring higher quality vine genetics from the Côte d’Or down south. Alain Hasard in Aluze is excellent, he eschews scores though he did let me review his wines once, a former restauranteur, with high density plantings and very good winemaking in modest appellations; I taste every year just for fun. Tupinier Bautista make very gourmand, fleshy, fruit-driven reds that show well at any age. Domaine du Cellier aux Moines is an ambitious newcomer that has really found its feet with the 2019 Givry reds. Maxime Cottenceau who worked with Dureuil has also gotten off to a very strong start and will go very far for sure. I have done an annual article on the Chalonnaise, sometimes including lesser known AOCs of the Côte d’Or and the Hautes-Côtes in the mix too, ever since I joined TWA and it has gotten a very good reception generally. As a region, it remains very under-explored and most commentators couldn’t tell you the difference between e.g. Les Margotés and Meix Cadot, or frankly even Givry and Mercury, without looking at a map, because this idea that these terroirs are inherently capable of making anything competitive with the Côte d’Or was just so deeply implanted that when the wines were bad it confirmed the a priori, and when they were good no one believed it.
