---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 296721
topic_slug: very-narvaux
topic_title: "\"Very Narvaux\"?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/very-narvaux/296721
post_id: 3998695
post_number: 10
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/very-narvaux/296721/10
date: "2023-02-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 378
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:30+00:00"
---

The benchmark, unhelpfully, is d’Auvenay, which comes from two rather long parcels towards the southern end of the climat where the soils contain more fine limestone fragments (the result of freeze-thaw erosion). This is a wine of amazing density and structure, animated by a bright spine of acidity, and it is often one of the best wines in the range if one looks beyond the classification and order of tasting.

You can see a d’Auvenay parcel, among others, here: [William Kelley on Instagram: "Harvesting in Meursault Les Narvaux, seen from the air! With the 2022 vintage well underway, it’s full of promise. Despite the year’s challenges, principally very dry conditions, first impressions of the fruit are promising, with the potential for good maturity, rather moderate alcohol levels, perfect sanitary conditions and good weather for harvesting. However, the extremes of the year have thrown agronomic choices into relief, and the broad latitude it offers in terms of harvest dates will certainly make generalizing about 2022 difficult when it’s time to taste them from barrel next year! Video courtesy of @wordonthegrapevine"](https://www.instagram.com/reel/CiNaK6dvWh-/)

Coche-Dury owns a parcel in Narvaux, towards the bottom of the vineyard towards the northern end, and this is bottled as Meursault. When you taste them knowing which is which, it exhibits a bit more plenitude and flesh than Vireuils, but more tension and cut than Pelles/Lauraule. There’s also a hefty dollop of Narvaux in several Meursault blends, such as PYCM’s these days (he hasn’t been bottling Narvaux apart the last couple of years) and Henri Boillot’s.

For other examples, Ballot-Millot make a strong contender in a rather leesy, reductive style, the 2020 is especially good. It’s a domaine cuvée for Maison Vincent Girardin, and Eric Germain has been doing a terrific job in recent years - two winters on the lees, carefully chosen cooperage, I buy it for my own cellar and when I have been able to convince friends to do the same, they have been delighted. Jobard-Morey has been on a rising trajectory in recent years and the 2020 is the best to date; and the same can be said for Boyer-Martenot, already cited here.
