---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 298476
topic_slug: new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today
topic_title: "New William Kelley mega-article on Bordeaux today"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today/298476
post_id: 4038560
post_number: 292
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today/298476/292
date: "2023-03-25"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 284
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:29+00:00"
---

Well, it all depends where you want to position your “golden age”, as I eluded to above. Astringency and herbaceousness have nothing to do with vintages such as 1949, 1961, 1959 or 1953, for example. When I wrote “best wines of the modern era” in the article I did so intentionally, rather than saying best ever, because when you have drunk the likes of 1961 Palmer, 1955 La Mission Haut Brion, 1953 Haut Brion, 1953 Lafite, 1921 Montrose, 1959 Latour and so on it is hard to imagine getting much better. I cut my teeth on wines like those in my late teens and early twenties, and the best Bordeaux of above all the '50s and '60s will always remain personal reference points. Other contributors to this thread would situate Bordeaux’s golden age in the 1980s, and while I agree there were a lot of great wines made in that era, there are far too many overly bretty bottles or wines with systematic low level TCA issues from the cellars for me to ever consider it a true golden age. My older mentor who introduced me to Bordeaux would likely have situated the “golden age” in the 1920s, finding the wines that came after a little light. And so on. I think the acid test for contemporary Bordeaux is (a) is it recognizably Bordeaux, is there a link with an identity over time, and (b) is it aesthetically compelling. There are so many more wines that meet this test today than was the case a decade ago. And I don’t think there is any wine region in the world making wines that tasted the way their wines did 30 years ago, honestly.
