---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 298476
topic_slug: new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today
topic_title: "New William Kelley mega-article on Bordeaux today"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today/298476
post_id: 4028820
post_number: 61
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today/298476/61
date: "2023-03-12"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 339
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:29+00:00"
---

I think we share an affinity for the great 20th-century classics, but I would not be so sure about attributing their greatness to less precision, less perfect ripeness and less control. I mentioned earlier that Burgundy is the great example of the fact that homogenous maturity delivers complex wines: in many cases, the parcels are so small that their ripeness is necessarily homogenous; and a hallmark of the best Pinot genetics on the best terroirs is a rapid and even véraison followed by even ripening. As a producer myself, I really do think that the idea that the best wines are made from a mix of underripe, perfectly ripe and overripe fruit is an error. Historically, the best Bordeaux vintages saw very even maturation and that shows in the seamless, harmonious profile of years such as 1959 and 1953. Similarly, there may have been less control, but the best wines were the results of fermentations that went seamlessly, a division clearly seen in the most extreme vintages such as 1921 and 1947, when some wines are excellent and others ruined by runaway fermentations. And when we talk of “less precision”, I think we do a disservice to the artisanal craft of the cellar workers who tended the great wines of the interwar and post war vintages, who I venture knew a lot about what they were doing and when it needed to be done (I’m convinced a lot of savior faire in élevage was lost as the region modernized in the 60s and 70s).

I quite understand your reservations, in short, but I think it’s a mistake to write off the new school of wines as a “chemistry experiment”, especially when so many of the people behind them share you admiration for the historic reference points. The technical director of one leading Right Bank château, for example, has a Magdelaine collection that would make you weep, and that’s always the estate that Baptiste Guinadeau cites when he speaks of the inspiration behind the Perrières project.
