---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 298476
topic_slug: new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today
topic_title: "New William Kelley mega-article on Bordeaux today"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today/298476
post_id: 4028808
post_number: 56
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-william-kelley-mega-article-on-bordeaux-today/298476/56
date: "2023-03-12"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 372
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:29+00:00"
---

I think they will compare quite favorably, though obviously one has to be quite careful to pick those that are truly balanced for the long haul. A wine such as Canon 2020, for example, for me appears to be the best Canon produced since the early 1960s. Rauzan Segla 2020 is probably their best since the 1950s at least. Giscours today is making their best wines since 1982 and before. And so on. Equally, of course, some estates have lost their way and are making less interesting wines than they were twenty years ago. But overall the tendency is positive, for the reasons cited in my article.

It is important to realize that with today’s climate, simply making the wine as it was made in the 1940s will not reproduce the wines of the 1940s. Things have to change if things are to stay the same. What we have to aspire to do it to preserve a distinctively Bordelais style, and strong individual aesthetic identities for different sites and châteaux. The wines of the 1920s don’t taste like the wines of the 1940s, and the 1950s don’t taste like the 1940s, but guiding thread wasn’t lost; and that’s what we have to either retain or find again. Hence my use of the term “contemporary classicism”. (This is really an aspiration that goes beyond any one region, and has as its antithesis making wines in a “fashionable” style that changes every few years.)

What has not changed in, however, is that the most long-lived wines are balanced wines made from ripe (but not over-ripe) grapes, matured in barrel or other vessels in a way that preserves their flavors intact from oxidation, and bottled with great care and excellent quality closures. All the trends I describe in my article have that in mind, so I am confident that the wines will age very well indeed. The big challenge of the wines of the first decade of this century has tended to be too advanced evolution due to overripe fruit and an excessively oxidative, oaky élevage for such ripe fruit (look at some 2009s such as Troplong that are already quite evolved). That issue is being widely addressed.
