---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 299143
topic_slug: bordeaux-2022
topic_title: "Bordeaux 2022"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bordeaux-2022/299143
post_id: 4062939
post_number: 425
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bordeaux-2022/299143/425
date: "2023-04-30"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 472
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:22+00:00"
---

Ian,

You are quite correct, and essentially made most of the point that I would have made. The “insiders” I cite are indeed technical directors, négociants and people in the trade. I do not really consider critics “insiders”, as they see a heavily curated version of Bordeaux and in most cases do not spend much time on the ground throughout the year in the vineyards.

Like many, I was an admirer of Pontet-Canet up until the 2012 vintage. They excelled in more challenging years such as 2007, were very consistent (the 2011 is terrific, for example), and also showed up in the big years, even if the 2009 is evolving a little more rapidly than one might have wished, like many 2009s.

I suspect many people who buy and cellar are not yet aware that from 2012 on, things changed. The challenges of implementing organic/biodynamics in the vineyards, combined with large-scale experimentation with different modalities of élevage (amphorae) in the cellar seems to have caused a variety of problems. In 2012, levels of volatile acidity would appear to be high (remember that this was the year Pontet-Canet’s second wine was denied the Pauillac appellation). The 2013 has aged very rapidly, even in the context of a very challenging vintage, exhibiting an alarmingly brown hue. 2014 aged better than I would have anticipated, and 2015 is showing well. 2018, however, exhibits all the aromatic and textural signatures that I personally associate with mildew: metallic, Syrah-like aromatics and a drying, bitter finish. 2019 and 2020 both show somewhat drying finishing that I would speculatively attribute to on the one hand, quite forceful extraction, followed by élevage that has tended to dry the wine out a bit.

In the Southwold blind tasting, Pontet-Canet has performed very poorly for the last decade. And amusingly, one of the critics Juan cited as an admirer of Pontet-Canet actually scored the 2018 12.5/20 blind, only to publish a review of 97/100.

This gets us to the question of why, with the exception of Neal Martin, no one ever brought this up. The question really is, are tasters not perceiving the problems I’m perceiving, or are they perceiving them and self-censoring? I tend to suspect it’s a bit of both. But after the back-to-back RP 100s for 2009 and 2010, Pontet-Canet became in a sense “to big to fail”, and given that they are also in my opinion quite bellicose in responding to criticism, it was easier to take the path of least resistance.

But of course, this is all, as Juan states, a matter of taste. Some people seem to like the flavors of mildew, and in which case they may find rich pickings among the Languedoc 2018s for very modest prices
