---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 299143
topic_slug: bordeaux-2022
topic_title: "Bordeaux 2022"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bordeaux-2022/299143
post_id: 4091403
post_number: 1394
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/bordeaux-2022/299143/1394
date: "2023-06-11"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 320
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:22+00:00"
---

There is actually more of a history of stems in Bordeaux, and especially with Cabernet Franc (aka Bouchet) in Saint-Emilion, than you might think. I have Guyot’s Étude des Vignobles de France open in front of me, where in the 1850s he writes, 'destemming isn’t practiced in Saint-Emilion; many producer crush the bunches before vatting. The grapes are put in open oak vats, and the cuvaison doesn’t last more than 4-8 days, depending on the vintage. The best wines aren’t either punched down or pumped over during the fermentation. The wines are drawn off into new oak barrels and the fermentation concludes in the barrels, with topping up every 8 days, and a racking in March and then in September." He goes on to talk about the “domaine du Mondot” putting whole clusters in the vats, sealing the vat with a layer of straw covered with clay, and doing a 8-10 day maceration.

Retention of whole clusters continued to be practiced into the 1960s (I seem to recall that Figeac stopped with the 1970 vintage) in Saint-Emilion.

Carmes is definitely doing the most of it today (makes sense given their mesoclimate, which trends ripe, and their high percentages of Cabernet Franc, plus the fact that Guilluame has a lot of experience with stems in the Rhône so actually knows what to do with them), but there are a few others using a bit here and there. La Tour Figeac does a reasonable amount, and now Jean Faure uses stems for their old vine Malbec, for example.

It’s an interesting technique but I try to avoid giving it too much prominence to avoid it becoming a gimmicky talking point, which is liable to happen if the Bordelais associate stems with good scores. As Pouthier says himself, whole cluster winemaking is at its best when you don’t taste/smell the stems.
