---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 299400
topic_slug: aging-champagne-under-cork-cap
topic_title: "Aging Champagne Under Cork/Cap"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/aging-champagne-under-cork-cap/299400
post_id: 4044642
post_number: 14
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/aging-champagne-under-cork-cap/299400/14
date: "2023-04-02"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 353
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:30+00:00"
---

Toasting is a big part of it, and a complex subject in itself as it comprises how hot, covered or not, how long, what sort of heat… Then there is grain, origin, seasoning… all of which is inter-related with toast, e.g. less seasoned wood with more toast is not the same as very seasoned wood with more toast. These variables then interact with the wine. There are principles but no rules, and it really takes in my so far very limited experience about 3-5 years to figure out what is ideal. As one gets more experience it gets easier, but not that much easier.

Fermenting in tank before going to barrel I don’t think inherently makes oakier-tasting wines, it’s just a matter of the barrels and the temperature of barreling down for the most part. The French have the expression, don’t feed strawberries to pigs; and in commerce, you tend to get what they think you deserve rather than what you ask for. I am not convinced that many producers in Champagne are getting the good barrels, and there are fewer and fewer to go around. Hydric stress in oak trees makes the wood taste of coconut, who knew. So… lots to think about! And as ever, no simple answers.

As for going in a vin nature/Jurassic direction, fine, it’s one route to escape the glass ceilings imposed by the traditional hierarchy of terroirs without necessarily having to do the work in the vineyards and the winery to make great wines. There’s a market for it, and I think today we are seeing a Balkanisation of the wine market, with lots of different niches, but happily without the need for those niches to attack each other. I do tend to think that gout de souris/brett/high VA Champagnes will struggle to find a broad audience, and they simply don’t interest me in any case. A very trendy US importer once said I have a Bourgeois palate, and without bearing it as a badge of honor it did not unduly perturb me.
