---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 304724
topic_slug: chablis-questions-about-the-future
topic_title: "Chablis - questions about the future"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/chablis-questions-about-the-future/304724
post_id: 4150907
post_number: 40
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/chablis-questions-about-the-future/304724/40
date: "2023-09-10"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 269
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:21+00:00"
---

We’re in the middle of harvest here, so I don’t have time to really get into this. But you have excelled yourself, Donald, even if you may have had some help from Chat GPT. My article aspires to answer the question: if Chablis is the latest-ripening and coolest leading region in Burgundy, and thus one might imagine the most buffered against a warming climate, then why has Chablis’ style seem to have changed more fundamentally in years such as 2022 than Burgundy’s more southerly appellations? You don’t appear either to have engaged with that question, or to have offered any concrete points of contention with my answers.

A few points:

- vintages are by definition mainly differentiated by climate
- the vast, vast majority of Chablis is machine harvested, enzymatically clarified, fermented at between 18-20 degrees centigrade in stainless steel and bottled before the next vintage; and it’s produced from Chardonnay vines trellised at around 1 meter high, pruned for generous yields, and growing in soils without cover crops. If there is any part of Burgundy one can generalize about, it is Chablis.
- you say that viticulture and winemaking cannot mitigate stylistic changes occasioned by climate change. But what is your basis for this contention? As a former chef/provincial wine merchant in Bad Herrenalb, Germany, what are your expertise to pronounce on this subject? And why, having said this, do you later write that “Maybe one can retain [a classic Chablis style] with leaf canopy, orientation of the viness or more probably with work in the cellar´and considering the drought with irrigation.”
