---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 305857
topic_slug: help-me-understand-natural-wine
topic_title: "Help Me Understand \"Natural Wine\""
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/help-me-understand-natural-wine/305857
post_id: 4179428
post_number: 169
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/help-me-understand-natural-wine/305857/169
date: "2023-10-20"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 251
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:28+00:00"
---

Depends what you’re selecting for.

The layer of bloom (mainly fatty acids) on the surface of the grape only forms at véraison - that’s to say only a few weeks from harvest. It is composed of around 75% molds (that cause decay, not fermentation) and only 25% yeast. Of that 25%, around 95% are apiculate yeast incapable of fermenting a wine to dryness (to say nothing of their frequent tendency to produce acetate). Within the remaining 5%, you will find only a couple of strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae. The actual composition of this bloom will be heavily determined by the weather (how much rain and what temperatures) from véraison on, as well as what strains happen to be blowing around; and far from being optimized for each vintage, the hotter and drier your conditions the more likely you are to have problematic microflora. Winemaking with native yeasts is about manipulating the parameters to **select** a very small number of strains from among the very many. The available parameters are temperature, use of sulfites, and presence of absence of oxygen (also pressure, in the case of sparkling wine production). But ipso facto all winemaking uses selected yeasts, whether selected from the many in the vineyard by choices in the winery, or selected in a laboratory; and for me the idea that weather-contingent microflora only present for a few weeks of the year is the ineluctable vector of terroir is one of the more stupid ideas in the contemporary wine world.
