---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 308499
topic_slug: william-kelley-on-premox
topic_title: "William Kelley on PreMox"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelley-on-premox/308499
post_id: 4233124
post_number: 75
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelley-on-premox/308499/75
date: "2023-12-27"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 308
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:27+00:00"
---

There were a few things that were going on chez Leflaive. One was going to the extreme of biodynamics, trying to harvest according to the lunar calendar… this didn’t play out well in e.g. 2006. Another was having a cellar for barrels and another for tanks on the other side of the village: the wines were moved in barrel from one to the other during the height of summer. And a third was the desire to reduce sulfite levels. Taken together you had wines going into bottle that were already more fragile than they should have been, protected by too little sulfites… and then you add the variation in corks and there you have it. Happily that is now in the past.

One can also identify particular vintages that were susceptible and look at why. Most obviously, 1996, where you had very high levels of acidity and sluggish malolactic fermentations: you can’t sulfite before malo is complete, and to get a sluggish malo to go through, it helps to warm the wine… so you had people with heaters in their cellars, heating the whole ambience and not just sluggish barrels. One grower I spoke to remembered sweating in the cellars in February. Obviously any barrels that were finished but not yet sulfited could get quite fatigued in such conditions. And of course, to integrate those tangy acids, lots of lees stirring was going on, too… but on wines with fewer gross lees to protect them thanks to the new pneumatic presses. Add plenty of new barrels to the mix, a false sense of security about the wines’ structure and thus the temptation to reduce sulfite levels, and probably the nadir of quality for the cork industry, and there you have it.

However, these are just particular cases of the general principles I set out above.
