---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 308499
topic_slug: william-kelley-on-premox
topic_title: "William Kelley on PreMox"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelley-on-premox/308499
post_id: 4232472
post_number: 54
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/william-kelley-on-premox/308499/54
date: "2023-12-26"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 264
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:27+00:00"
---

If you eliminate wines with either/or residual sugar, very high sulfite levels, and alternative closures, how much are you left with? I venture not very much. Certainly not dry white Bordeaux, dry Loire wines, Tuscan whites, etc. And I would argue that when a California Chardonnay begins to tire at age 6 or 7, people tend to just chalk it up to the natural aging potential of the wine, or to “bottle variation”. If people outside Australia where more acquainted with Australian wine before and after the widespread shift to screw cap (btw another example of lots of producers in a region making the same technical choices at around the same time), I think we might have a different perspective.

I do think it’s a pity people gloss over the climate/agronomy side of things (which impacts corks just as it does grapes). A decade ago, my approach to premox was that we should simply go back to making wines the way the way we used to 40 years ago. Today, I am pretty much convinced that if you want things to stay the same when your raw materials are different, you have to make some changes.

I think one of the things that has impeded coming to terms with premox is the fact that we have reified something complex and multifactorial as a single, mystical problem, rather than simply breaking down the technical trajectory of the vine from the ground to the glass and addressing each element in turn, as we would tend to if we described it as “bottle variation”.
