---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 319734
topic_slug: inconsistency-of-wine-ratings-at-twa
topic_title: "Inconsistency of Wine Ratings at TWA?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/inconsistency-of-wine-ratings-at-twa/319734
post_id: 4324069
post_number: 58
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/inconsistency-of-wine-ratings-at-twa/319734/58
date: "2024-03-19"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 308
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:26+00:00"
---

Ah, objectivity. As they said in the Princess Bride, “you keep using that word, I do not think it means what you think it means”. An “objective” quality is a quality of the object (in this case, the wine) in itself that exists independently of an observer. Objective information about a wine would include things like its alcohol content, pH, blend, release price, so on. There is plenty of such information in a tasting note, but the core work of any appreciation/criticism of a wine is inherently subjective, in that it perceived by a subject (the taster) and not a property of the wine in and of itself. For example, that the release price is 150 USD is objective; that the wine is expensive is subjective. Some subjective perceptions can be tethered in objective fact: if the wine is aged entirely in heavily toasted new barrels (objective), and the critic observes that it tastes oaky (subjective), this at least seems a priori plausible. And some subjective views are so widely shared as to become a consensus; but this does not make them objective. Nor does subjectivity imply incoherence or caprice: a good critic aspires to be very consistent in their point of view and reasoning. In this particular case, you are criticizing me for having said that certain wines that are objectively late-picked, above-average in alcohol and aged in appreciable percentages of new oak taste borderline overripe, alcoholic and oaky, because a critical consensus held that they were not, and accusing me of lacking objectivity. So you see we have gotten quite a long way from what the words actually mean. As you say, it is possible that with age I will come to share your tastes, but I think readers will be entitled to wonder whether that represents growing wisdom or a declining palate.
