---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 322453
topic_slug: raveneau-alternatives
topic_title: "Raveneau \"alternatives\""
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/raveneau-alternatives/322453
post_id: 4374038
post_number: 33
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/raveneau-alternatives/322453/33
date: "2024-05-21"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 249
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:26+00:00"
---

This is a pretty interesting exchange, which throws into relief the challenges of using terms such as “traditional” and “modern” with reference to ultimately arbitrary waypoints on an evolutionary continuum. Raveneau is a “traditionalist” in a lot of ways, but also modernized quite a bit with Bernard Raveneau, who returned to the family domaine after launching the Vézelay coop in the mid-1980s. The wines ferment in vat and are racked quite clean to barrels (whereas Dauvissat rack quite turbid), which are renewed reasonably frequently while remaining predominantly used, and which include some larger format wood for some cuvées. Doses of SO2 were pretty high under Bernard and seem to be a bit lower these days… I have no idea what they were like before 1985, as the old wines are too good and too rare for me to have ever sent a sample to the lab. Dauvissat today is for me more “traditional”, as they still use some feuillettes (the traditional barrel size in Chablis, and the unit by which must/bulk wine is still sold) for the cuvées from more marly, reductive terroirs; they retain more lees; and they use less sulfites; they also renew their barrels a touch less frequently (at least, that’s my impression).

For a lot of people today, however, “traditional” Chablis goes back to the 1970s and means fermentation in stainless steel followed by bottling quite early… And this exists in contradistinction to “Modern” Chablis which sees an overt new oak influence.
