---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 325162
topic_slug: new-wine-advocate-reviewer-and-his-thoughts-on-sqn
topic_title: "New Wine Advocate Reviewer and His Thoughts On SQN"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-wine-advocate-reviewer-and-his-thoughts-on-sqn/325162
post_id: 4434479
post_number: 136
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/new-wine-advocate-reviewer-and-his-thoughts-on-sqn/325162/136
date: "2024-08-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 364
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:24+00:00"
---

Thanks for everyone who has posted thoughtful comments on this. Especially for everyone who has taken the time to read Matthew’s clear but nuanced report, which I think contains the answers to most of the other questions raised here. He may jump in if he has anything to add, but I just wanted to make two remarks.

The first is that we certainly don’t take lightly the issue of “downgrading” a producer—or rather, a producer’s wines—in the context of how they have previously been reviewed. As [@CFu](/u/cfu) astutely points out, it’s very much like how I imagine our colleagues at the Michelin Guide must feel. It would be far more agreeable to hand out very high scores to the same producers every year. We’re conscious of how much work goes into making wine, and how a legacy with TWA can be an important part of a winery’s story over the last few decades. And it does indeed involve internal discussion. However, we believe that for wine criticism to merit its name, and to have any enduring relevance for consumers, we need to reevaluate wines and wineries afresh, critically, each and every time we review them.

The second remark is how pleased I am with Matthew’s work for TWA so far. He has not shied away from some brave calls, whether with his Monte Bello review backed up with lab analysis, or the way he has expressed himself, I think very frankly but also respectfully, regarding SQN. He is actually a few months my senior, as we are fellow '89s (I am certainly not against hiring someone younger than me for a permanent position, but I haven’t yet managed it). With over a decade at Mélisse under his belt and a very sharp palate, as well as his stint at *Decanter* , I think his credentials are robust. But one of the things I admire most is his willingness to learn, evolve and refine as a taster: there’s a difference between simple repetition of an activity and real experience, and Matthew’s approach means that he has built up plenty of the latter.
