---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 325699
topic_slug: why-is-there-so-little-coverage-of-bordeaux-in-the-advocate
topic_title: "Why is there so little coverage of Bordeaux in the Advocate?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-is-there-so-little-coverage-of-bordeaux-in-the-advocate/325699
post_id: 4447278
post_number: 51
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-is-there-so-little-coverage-of-bordeaux-in-the-advocate/325699/51
date: "2024-08-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 382
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:24+00:00"
---

Hi Mark,

I don’t think the premise of your post is entirely accurate. The bread-and-butter of Bordeaux coverage has always been the en primeur report and the report on the latest commercially available vintage. These two large articles are complemented by various verticals throughout the year (as they are small and not so time-sensitive, they do not tend to make it onto the public editorial calendar). In 2012, for example, to pick a year at random (and one that featured some quite impactful articles), RP published his 2009 Bordeaux from bottle reviews, his 2011 en primeur report, a vertical of La Mission Haut-Brion back to 1970. Neal Martin contributed Sauternes reports in the same year. If Bordeaux wasn’t an “afterthought” then, I don’t think it’s an afterthought now.

Now, if you would like to see *more* coverage, I hear you. In fact, there will be several more verticals and a piece on older wines out before the end of the year. But the big reports still come out for the key releases. Part of the perception that you have may of course come from the fact that you’re not interested in en primeur these days, which I think is true for a lot of Bordeaux buyers; and it is true that the en primeur circus consumes a lot of the resources we devote to Bordeaux.

As for my schedule being hectic, it is true that the additional workload since becoming editor hasn’t been inconsequential. That includes a lot of investments, some hiring, and a lot of other work behind the scenes (forgive me for being a little vague, but I prefer to announce things once they’re executed rather than to promise them in advance), all of which is focussed on a bright, dynamic and very customer-focussed future for TWA. These things do take time to get rolling, but I think that over the next six months you’ll begin to see the effect.

Also, know that you can just send me a DM here if you have a question, you don’t need to call the helpline. That’s really more for if you have a problem logging into the site, or some such, rather than editorial questions.

Best,

William
