---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 325699
topic_slug: why-is-there-so-little-coverage-of-bordeaux-in-the-advocate
topic_title: "Why is there so little coverage of Bordeaux in the Advocate?"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-is-there-so-little-coverage-of-bordeaux-in-the-advocate/325699
post_id: 4447321
post_number: 55
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/why-is-there-so-little-coverage-of-bordeaux-in-the-advocate/325699/55
date: "2024-08-29"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 294
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:24+00:00"
---

I think as soon as people start to talk about technique, things often get a little confused.

What is clear is that a suite of approaches and techniques popular in the late-1990s through the mid-2010s have resulted in wines that have sometimes evolved too rapidly—and this can actually be measured analytically by the molecule methylnonanedione (MND).

These included viticultural techniques such as herbicide use (which encourages shallower rooting) and aggressive deleafing in the context of generally hotter, sunnier vintages; picking ripe-to-overripe rather than underripe-to-ripe as had been the norm for the mid-20th century; hot, extractive vinificaitons; and oxidative élevage practices.

Microoxygenation is, like most techniques, a bit less black and white. It can be done during the fermentation phase, in lieu of or as a complement to other techniques such as pumping over, to supply the fermenting must’s oxygen needs. In this case, it is not oxidative in its results and nor is it necessarily going to make the wine taste better young. Or it can be performed on a wine that has completed its fermentation, in which case, it will indeed render the wine more appealing young and potentially reduce its aging capacity in bottle. Given that the technique in this latter sense was generally combined with other practices, such as heavy deleafing and picking over-ripe, it is hard to isolate and account for its impact.

Much like battonage in white Burgundy, it has been not so much banished as driven underground. For example, some producers who use DIAM closures in red Bordeaux prepare the wines for bottling with micro oxygenation to avoid reduction in bottle; but this is more art than science, and we will see what the long-term results are.
