---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 327091
topic_slug: i-think-we-need-to-talk-about-2020-red-burgundy
topic_title: "I think we need to talk about 2020 Red Burgundy"
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/i-think-we-need-to-talk-about-2020-red-burgundy/327091
post_id: 4483339
post_number: 39
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/i-think-we-need-to-talk-about-2020-red-burgundy/327091/39
date: "2024-10-14"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 232
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:23+00:00"
---

It depends how you define “fresher”. Acidities are analytically higher, and pHs lower, in most case-to-case comparisons between 2019 and 2020. In some cases, as chez Jadot for example which is a big sample set, abvs were around 0.5% lower than in 2019, though still above-average.

The stylistic issue with 2020 is all the sunshine and lack of water. That makes it a more uneven vintage than 2019, as more extreme conditions foreground differences in farming and site more prominently. The very ripe fruit, sometimes with sunburn, was clearly not that well suited to oxidative élevage processes (e.g. racking with lots of air uptake, sometimes multiple times), which can put tradition at odds with results. Too much oxygen can dull the fruit after a little time in bottle, and then the oak comes to the fore, and very ripe fruit is more susceptible to this (just look at how many 1990s evolved). The fact that less ripe fruit handles such treatment better is surely one reason why what are on paper “weaker” vintages not infrequently outperform the banner years in Burgundy after a decade in bottle.

I have always underlined that 2020 reds are more inconsistent than 2019 in TWA, and that inconsistency seems more prominent after a few years in bottle. But 2019 is also a pretty high bar to measure any red Burgundy vintage against.
