---
type: berserkers_post
user: William_Kelley
topic_id: 335871
topic_slug: kalin-cellars-availability
topic_title: "Kalin Cellars Availability  "
topic_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/kalin-cellars-availability/335871
post_id: 4722104
post_number: 34
post_url: https://www.wineberserkers.com/t/kalin-cellars-availability/335871/34
date: "2025-08-09"
category: "WINE TALK"
reply_to_user: ""
reply_to_excerpt: ""
word_count: 291
fetched_at: "2026-05-07T05:31:20+00:00"
---

My experience with the wines in vintages including the riper ones such as '79, '83, '86 and '89 and also some of the later harvest where there was a bit of botrytis such as 1993 is that in addition to all the oyster shell you frequently get a lot of honey, mandarin, orange blossom, saffron and sometimes even exotic fruit, all while remaining very racy. In the higher appellation wines, this is combined with quite some density and texture. I remember once serving a 1986 Droin Valmur to a winemaker in Beaune, whose initial gut response was “this doesn’t taste like Chablis”. Of course, it did! But not like a 2014 Chablis…

Musing on this further, Chablis is perhaps one of the regions that gets type cast the most. I think people sometimes tend to treat it as something of the Muscadet of Burgundy, and go to it looking for a very specific set of flavors, often to pair with specific cuisines (especially oysters etc). And the textbook definition of what Chablis is in many consumers’ heads is probably a young Petit Chablis from a cooler but clean year: stony, citrusy, racy, medium-bodied and bone dry. But without even getting into the global warming discussion, which tends to dominate this topic, not all vintages do that, and nor are all sites adapted to it (think Bougros, at the furthest extreme of richness, or the frequent exotica of Beauroy). And I think some of those wines that don’t fit the mold tend to get short shrift (unless of course they carry the Raveneau or Dauvissat label). This is not to say that everyone should like them, but just that they deserve more of a chance than they sometimes get.
